Subject: Avatars: How do you deal with 'em?
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
From: datawolf@inconnu.org
Date: Thu, 11 May 95 05:59:43 EST
Organization: Inconnu BBS


IP>a) Does the Avatar always turn up during the prelude?
IP> [For me, not necessarily; if the prelude involves a death or
IP>dream-quest of some kind, it probably will. For others, the
IP>Avatar stays in the background and is never really identified or
IP>even hinted at being there, although the player may work out in
IP>retrospect that the Avatar was there when they realise how it
IP>behaves]

I've usually had characters' Avatars make at least a cursory appearance
during their Awakening, even if the character has no idea what it is
they're dealing with at the time.  The aspect which usually does this is
the Progenitor, though I've sometimes had the Monitor make an appearance
instead if the character really needs help (i.e. has gone seriously
astray of their own conscience.)

IP>b) When the Avatar communicates with the character during game-
IP>sessions, does it appear in dream sequences or as something in
IP>the perceived reality around the mage (much like Quiet, with
IP>a possibility that the Avatar may even be visible to others in
IP>some cases)?

I never have the Avatar put in any sort of personal appearance in any
instance except the Epiphany.  The character's Merits and Flaws are very
good for this sort of thing.  Strangeness is a good Flaw which an Avatar
might use to prepresent itself symbolically, Echoes might also work.  It
depends a lot on the personal beliefs of the character in question as
well.  Dreamspeakers might communicate with their Avatar through dreams,
Chorus mages might recieve visions during prayer, and Akashics might do
so when in deep meditation.  Other than the Epiphany, though, I usually
have the Avatar communicate through coincidences and symbolism rather
than personally, and only at the moments when it would be least
expected.  Concerning other characters communicating with another Mages
Avatar, only a Master of Spirit can do this, and most of them would
never do so without a VERY good reason.. probably considering a Mage's
relationship with his Avatar to be a very personal and private matter.

IP>c) Is the Avatar always helpful, believing the character to have
IP>some linking destiny to the Avatar, or is it capable of being just
IP>downright resentful of the apparent loser it's been saddled with
IP>for this lifetime?

It depends on the aspect in question.  The Mover might be resentful if
the Mage isn't making the progress it feels he ought to when it feels he
ought to.  The Monitor is likely to be scathing in the extreme if the
Mage violates his own personal code of ethics in a major way (make it
"their" own, there really isn't any difference.)  I usually have the
aspects show up at different times during the Seeking.  The Monitor
might show up during the Epiphany if it feels that the Mage must resolve
some moral conflict before beginning, otherwise the Mover will set
things in motion.  The Guardian will reveal the goal, while the
Progenitor might serve to keep the Mage grounded in his own sense of
being during the Quest, and the Fool will appear at the end, and will
probably say nothing at first but interact more and more with the Mage
as he makes progress through successive Seekings.  I've always
considered the Avatar to be a PART of the Mage.. that aspect of the self
that the consciousness doesn't even realize exists otherwise.  I tend to
think that using the Avatar to harass or disadvantage the character
kills its mystique.

IP>d) Finally, what kind of Avatars have you run/created/played in the
IP>past? I'd love to hear what other people have had...

Well, speaking only of the characters I myself have run:

An Orphan who eventually became a Barabbi Mage: The Avatar appeared as a
human shape made of red flame at first.  The Avatar was damaged and was
in a state of internal conflict from the very beginning (as a result of
this characters twisted personality and highly unplesant upbringing.)
As the game (and his own personal problems and perversions) progressed,
the Avatar took on the form of a cobra (still made of red flame) as it
finally became fully corrupt before his Rebirth as a barabbi.  The
character actually embraced his Avatar more and more as it came to
resemble his own conscious nature, and even had its form (as the cobra)
tattooed on himself.  The tattoo later became a direct representation of
the corrupt Avatar and would move about his body (occasionally as small
Paradox Flaws.)  Before corruption was complete, different aspects of
the thing would constantly appear in dreams either to tempt him,
misguide him, or scream for help (sometimes literally.)  The nature of
the character was Deviant, the Essence Dynamic.

Dr. Korskov's Avatar appeared as a bolt of lightning which would strike
him during his Epiphanies and start what he called a "brain storm!"  He
would recieve other "shocks" as well at different times during the
Seeking.  There was nothing subtle (in word or deed) about this
particular Avatar, and it always seemed to consider talk to be a waste
of time.  The Essence was Questing, the Nature was Architect, and I
think you can guess his Tradition. :)  He used to call it his
"Scientific inspiration!"  And yes, his hair did have that "plugged in"
look after each appearance of this particular Avatar. :)

David Parks (Euthanatos, Caregiver [!], Primordial): David was a
Euthanatos Mage whose own circumstances of initiation gave him the title
of Minister to the Suicidal.  The Mage himself was a deeply troubled 23
year old with an extremely unplesant past.  After his own attempted
suicide his Avatar Awakened and appeared to him for the first time,
informing him that he was uniquely qualified to understand the needs of
certain Sleepers who required the Good Death.  After some floundering
he became acquainted with another Euthanatos Mage, who was extremely
suprised to learn that David's own Avatar had already all but initiated
him into the Tradition.  He spent several years seeking out and
counseling individuals who were avout to take their own lives, helping
them determine wether their "well of life" was truly empty or not and
either guiding them back onto their life's course or helping them die
(to prevent guilt over the act from weighing too heavily on the persons
spirit.)  An intriuging fact about this character was that he never
truly lost the desire to die himself, and that the Avatar (which
appeared as the angel Uriel) was quite aware that David would never
reach Ascension within that lifetime.  The Avatars goal was to help the
character reach an understanding of his own problems by helping others
with similar ones, and in the end it gave its blessing for David to take
the leap which he originally intended.

Hope these examples help.
                                               datawolf@inconnu.org
