From owner-wod-l@netcom.com  Thu May  2 20:35:41 1996
Received: from mail.netcom.com (root@mail.netcom.com [192.100.81.99])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id UAA07620 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Thu, 2 May 1996 20:35:38 +0200
Received: (from daemon@localhost) by mail.netcom.com (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id OAA23053; Wed, 1 May 1996 14:23:42 -0700
Received: from atc.boeing.com (atc.boeing.com [130.42.28.80]) by mail (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id OAA22888; Wed, 1 May 1996 14:22:42 -0700
Received: by atc.boeing.com (5.65/splinter.boeing.com)
	id AA15659; Wed, 1 May 1996 14:18:28 -0700
Received: from runt.ca.boeing.com by splinter.boeing.com with ESMTP
	(1.37.109.16/16.2) id AA139895622; Wed, 1 May 1996 14:20:22 -0700
Received: by runt.ca.boeing.com (940816.SGI.8.6.9/931108.SGI.ANONFTP)
	 id OAA09057; Wed, 1 May 1996 14:20:06 -0700
From: "Corwyn J. Alambar" <cja8174@runt.ca.boeing.com>
Message-Id: <9605011420.ZM9055@runt.ca.boeing.com>
Date: Wed, 1 May 1996 14:20:03 -0700
X-Mailer: Z-Mail (3.2.0 26oct94 MediaMail)
To: gm-l@netcom.com, wod-l@netcom.com
Subject: Mr. Phipps' BBS - More N. CA by Night
Cc: mage-l@oracle.wizards.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Sender: owner-wod-l@netcom.com
Precedence: list
Reply-To: wod-l@netcom.com
Status: RO
X-Status: 

Yes, another chantry in the Bay Area of California.  This time, one of the
"expected" factions of the Traditions, the Virtual Adepts, and their main
Chantry, headquartered in the digitially active region known as Silicon
Valley.

Author's Note:  I will be working on an update to my earlier writings on the
Bay Area, maybe even assembling them into a 'sourcebook' format once I finish
with the Garou and the final Mage details, as well as fleshing out the
tidbits on the Kindred of the Bay Area as well.  I'd like to thank everyone
who has made comments on this ongoing project, and would like to hear from
anyone who has been using this setting or parts of it, either in California
or in the rest of the World of Darkness.  Unfortunately, this can never be
canon, but with luck this has proven to be a valuable resource to the
net.gaming.community out there.

Mr. Phipps' BBS
The Virtual Adepts in Silicon Valley and the Bay Area

"Turn up the power,
"This is the hour
"From every tower
"A million watts of love!"
-Information SOciety, "1,000,000 Watts of Love"

Long considered the home of the DIgital Revolution, the stretch of land in
the Santa Clara Valley from south Fremont south and westward to Palo Alto and
Menlo Park known as Silicon Valley has done more to shape the technology that
makes todays computers.  No fewer than 20 large computer companies, from
Hewlett-Packard to Sun to Silicon Graphics to microprocessor giant Intel make
their homes here.  You would think this to be the playground of the
Technocracy.

Not so.  Companies that rely on brilliant, if eccentric, young talent,
gambling, taking chances, thrive here.  Most people know the story about a
pair of students who started the company known as Apple Computers from their
garage.  Or the "modern miracle" known as Netscape Communications.  Even
Netcom On-Line, one of the largest providers of Internet access in the United
States, found its start here.  Truly, then, this is the layground of the
Virtual Adepts.

History

Silicon Valley was originally caught securely in the grasp of the New World
Order and Iteration X until sometime during the 1960s, when the cultural war
that was taking place swept in, and with it came the influence of the Virtual
Adepts.  A bunch of hotshot young programmers and engineers, heavilly
influenced by the Virtual Adepts, staged an underground coup, taking this
once formidable engine of paradigm engineering and turning it into a virtual
madhouse of technological advance and surprise.

Many of the Adepts here view themselves as the fathers and mothers of the
modern Adept tradition, though many of the people who were actually part of
the Great Revolution (as they call it), are middle-aged, and looking to
retire from the Ascension War.  They look down with disgust on the newest
crop of Virtual Adepts, seeing the cyberpunk and cypherpunk movement as
riding on the coattails of what they had done, and doing it poorly.  Style
over substance, they believe, and find more solace in movies like Weird
Science and Real Genius than from The Net or Johnny Mnemonic.

Mr. Phipps is a semi-legendary figure here in SIlicon Valley, suppsoedly
having started the oldest software pirate BBS in history, back in the days of
acoustic modems and paper tape.  If it's hot, Mr. Phipps has it.  If you can
find him.There have been no fewer than nine raids in fifteen years against
the ubiquitous Mr. Phipps, and always law enforcement leaves with egg on
their face, after raiding a nursing home or in one case a suburban church.

The Chantry

The Chantry itself is actually a collection of small Horizon Realms connected
by causeways through the Digital Web.  Surrounded by some of the best
security in the entire Web, the BBS is considered one of the safest spots to
have a meeting, anywhere.

The physical analogues of the BBS move about using a random Time and
Correspondence effect, which should cause Paradox, but somehow doesn't.
 There are rumors that the Paradox is actually bled off into the Web
somewhere, but there has been no way to prove or disprove this theory.

The main Chantry center, both in the Web and its physical parallel, is called
the Server.  This is where all of the major business of the Chantry is
decided, as well as some of the classic parties that, were they less
exclusive, would rival the parties held at the Digital Raven (qv), also a hot
spot in the Bay Area.

There are a number of smaller gathering points, POPs (Points of Presence),
with many the same characteristics.  One wanders around San Francisco,
another around Berkeley/Oakland, and another in the Contra Costa Valley area,
near Concord and Walnut Creek.  For major Chantry meetings, a co-locational
effect takes place, and all the POPs meld into the same "space" as the
Server.

Relations

The relations between the members of Mr. Phipps BBS and the surrounding
Chantries is on an up and down basis, in general.  Their specific relations
with local powers is as follows:

The Scarlet Mansion - Relations are smooth in general, though sometimes
conflicts erupt (Never get a Virtual Adept stoned on anything more powerful
than marijuana.  LSD is STRAIGHT OUT!)

The Chantry of the Gold Coast - Rocky, as the more prestigious Gold Coast
Chantry looks at these rebellious upstarts as endangering the delicate work
they have been doing.  Often this results in a war in the media, particularly
the local television stations, which have become a favorite method of
battling back and forth between the major Chantries in the area.

The Silver Sunset Ranch - The members of Mr Phipps' BBS know there is
something strange about that old ranch cum cemetary out on the coast, but
they can't figure out what.  The director and his assistant merely give a
knowing smile.

The Seekers of the Mirror's Shards - The Seekers have an infiltrator in
amongst the Virtual Adepts, but there has been no indication that they know
the nature of this nephandus-driven cult.

The Technocracy - (in chorus) FIND THEM, and KILL THEM!

Culture

"Figures slowly come to life
Almost always they are having
Minor problems, minor strife
I can almost hear you laughing
This is how it feels
Using up the time we steal
this is how it feels
to be free... to be free?"
-Information Society, "To Be Free"

Unlike most Virtual Adept groups, the preponderance here is not with a very
young, counterculture membership.  THe members of Mr Phipps' BBS are maturing
individuals who still get a thrill from running a covert war against the
"Established Order", who still want to spread a little sunshine and make the
world a better place.  They are more likely to listen to Information Society
and Jimi Hendrix than to Machines of Loving Grace or Nine Inch Nails.

Many of their actions are designed to subvert the paradigm in long, broad
strokes.  They subtlely manipulate the media, infiltrating network computers
and changing news stories, etc., to put a negative slant to any story about
the "Establishment."  They sponsor sites on the 'Net about alternative points
of view, championing causes from the Libertarian Party to Greenpeace.

They are all much more ideological than they feel their bretheren are, and
many of them can be grouped into a few small groups, based on common points
of view.

The SWAT Team

Search, Watch, Attack, Terminate.  Members from this group like nothing
better than to sabotage things, and blow them up.  Their bretheren in the
environmental movement are called "eco-terrorists" by their "fans" in
industry, and they are considered to be a major threat to Technocracy
operations.  Staging asaults and thefts on major Technocracy constructs has
long been their main method of action, but recently they've turned to
computer hacking and crashing systems to cause more trouble.

The Media is the Message

A group that describes themselves using a twist on an old slogan, these
people are master manipulators of television, radio, and print.  By the
careful spread of information, they are able to manipulate and influence
decisions onn a global scale (members of this group take credit for causing
the collapse of one of Britain's oldest banks... And a major $yndicate
construct.  Whether they are to be believed or not is still in question.)

The Jammers

This group wants nothing more than to disrupt the normal flow of
communications, to slow and eventually stop the pace of brainwashing
accomplished via the mass media.  They hope this kind of disruption will
cause people to think for themselves, but secretly many of them are afraid
that there is little hope for many of the "television slaves".

Defenses

"I don't think it's coincidence,
and I don't believe in accidents
It's time to ask ourselves
Why are we still here?"
-Information Society, "Still Here"

For a Chantry that is in an almost constant state of warfare with their
technocratic neighbors, the atmosphere is relaxed, too lax by some standards.
 But their defenses are deep and insidious, consisting of many different rots
and effects (both magical and mundane) that keep their defenses raised.

Encrypt (Entropy 2, Mind 2)

With the use of this rote, the subject is able to make their thought patterns
random enough that they cannot be read meaningfully by most Mind rotes and
effects.

Access Denied, Connection Closed (Corr. 4, Forces 2)

With this effect a person can be expelled from any mundane location back to
their "home" location.  This effect is, of course, very vulgar.  With the
addition of Spirit 2, it can be used to expell an intruder from the Digital
Web, back to either the Umbra or the Earth.

Password Verification (Mind 3, Forces 2)

This rote scans the mind of anyone attempting to access an area, unlocking a
door if the person is identified as someone who belongs there, or sounding an
alarm if they do not.

*****

So, everyone, tell me what you think!

-Corey

-- 
It is even true of certain ideas, as of certain predatory species, that
they can subsist only as long as the species of idea on which they prey
subsists in sufficient number.
     - Bertrand De Jouvenel, _The Art of Conjecture_

