Walking in Beauty - Towards an Order of Hermes Paradigm Page

The magickal paradigm as presented in MtA is vaguely Hermetic but it has 
been made generic enough to apply to all Traditions.  This Paradigm Page 
attempts to more give a richer feel to Hermetic magic by making such 
mages pay more attention to factors like the day of the week, the time 
of the year and the planets that rule the magick the mage creates.  
This effort was based on my limited understanding of astrology, 
Kaballah, and the western esoteric tradition generally.  I have also 
tried to make it playable.  In short, I may be completely wrong about 
some of the attributions or other such things because I have tried to 
stress consistency over accuracy.  I was inspired by, and copped much 
from, the Nephilim RPG magic system by Chaosium, which is of course 
highly recommended.  


Mage Terms - Clarifications, Additions, Changes

	The Paradigm:  Ascension.  Each mage must, through effort and 
experience, fully Awaken from the sleep of unconciousness.  By rousing the 
Self, part of the universe is aroused.  The ultimate goal is that the 
entire universe be fully awakened, either by its own efforts or through the
efforts of the Awakened.  This would represent complete victory for the 
Order of Hermes in the so-called Ascension War.

	Paradox:  Imbalance.  In order to make something move, it is often 
necessary to make it imbalanced.  In the the same way, a mage can make 
Reality move by imbalancing it.  Because of the principle of "as above, 
so below" the mage also becomes imbalanced.  Another way to think of it 
is that mage becomes unbalanced by moving from Tipareth (the center of 
the Tree of Life) to one of the Spheres in order to take advantage of 
that Sphere's power.  Either way, the Mage will eventually have to come 
back into balance, and this may be painful.  This is the price of power.

	The Spheres.  A Hermetic mage would likely have little trouble 
thinking of the Spheres as they are presented in MtA or calling them by 
the names there.  Hermetic mages are able to understand the world in 
Technocratic terms and may even take advantage of the innovations the 
Technocracy has made.  However, the Techno worldview is inherently limited
and while it may be a source of inspiration, the Tree of Life and the 
Hermetic tradition are the best way to interpret all phenonema, including 
those produced by the Technocrats.  The Tree of Life includes all possible
systems, because it is the blueprint of Creation.  The Technomancers are 
just trapped in the lower worlds, unable to leave the world of matter 
behind and reach the higher worlds.

	 I have attributed each of the Spheres to one of the Sephirot 
(Hebrew for spheres) of the Tree of Life.  A Hermetic mage might be as 
likely to call a Sphere by its Sephirot name, and should be encouraged 
to think of the implications the rulership of that sphere has.  For 
example, a pacifistic mage would avoid Entropy magicks, which are ruled 
by the warlike sephiroth Geburah.  I will list the Sephirot, its 
associated Sphere, then the Ruling Planet, the day associated with the 
planet, and the traditional one-word description of the Sephiroth.  The 
explanatory text is mine and I hope I have come close what the Tree is 
supposed to represent.


Kether - Prime			None, None, Crown

	Kether is the Crown and that from which everything proceeds.  
Essential reality is beyond the rulership of the planets because their 
authority comes from reality.  Alternatively, planetary influences do 
effect Prime, but usually in ways that cancel out (see below), making for 
no visible influence.

Chokmah - Time		Saturn, Saturday, Wisdom

	As the second emanation, Chokmah is well-suited to represent 
time.  As Father Time, he is associated with Saturn.

Binah - Correspondence		Moon, Monday, Understanding

	Binah is the third emanation.  She completes the upper triad, 
giving us a triangle and thus making her mother to space and geometry.  
As a goddess, she is associated with the moon.

Chesed - Mind			Thursday, Jupiter, Mercy

	Mercy is often the perogative a ruler, such Jupiter, king of the 
gods.  In order to rule well, a king must have a finely honed mind.

Geburah - Entropy		Tuesday, Mars, Strength

	It seemed a good match to put Entropy with a Sephirot ruled by the 
War God given the chaos war causes.  As Mercy gives way to Strength, so 
even Mind's best thoughts give way to forgetfulness, entropy.

Tiphareth - the Mage's self	Sunday, Sun, Beauty

	When a person Awakens, they are said to have moved into the Sphere 
of Tiphareth.  Tiphareth mediates between the other spheres.  It is at the 
center of the tree - its hub.  From here, the mage can be the unmoved 
mover.

Netzach - Life			Friday, Venus, Victory

	Love, lust, attraction, and other feelings procede from Life.

Hod - Forces			Wednesday, Mercury, Splendor

	As the Sphere aligned to their legendary founder, the Order of 
Hermes felt obliged to make Forces their specialty Sphere.  Of course, 
they do not object to the sheer power it offers either.  However, they 
would object that emphasizing power misses the point.  A mage must move 
from his or her center, and that is why the mage is located in Tipareth 
instead of Hod.

Yesod - Spirit			Monday, Moon, Foundation

	Governed by the Moon, this Sephiroth also governs interactions
with "things that go bump in the night."

Malkuth - Matter			None, Earth, Kingdom

	Malkuth is the reality we see.  As the last emanation, it is the 
most dense.  Matter is a natural fit.  As the ground on which we stand, 
Matter has no planet that rules it.

For convenience, here is the same list alphabetized by Mage Sphere with 
their associated planets, colors, and days

Correspondence	Binah		Moon		Purple		Monday
Entropry	Geburah		Mars		Red		Tuesday
Forces		Hod		Mecury		White		Wednesday
Life		Netzach		Venus		Green		Friday
Matter		Malkuth		Earth		Black		none
Mind		Chesed		Jupiter		Orange		Thursday
Prime		Kether		none		none		none
Spirit		Yesod		Moon		Purple		Monday
Time		Chokmah		Saturn		Blue		Saturday
(the mage)	Tiphareth	Sun		Yellow		Sunday

Times and Seasons 

Depending on the day of the week and astrological month of the year, 
Hermetic Mages may be stronger or weaker than mages of other Traditions.  
In game terms, they will gain bonuses or penalties to their Difficulty 
numbers.  

Difficulties above 10 mean the spell is not possible; the stars are against
you.  Of course, a Mage could spend Quintessence to lower, for example, an 
impossibly high 11 to a barely possible 10 or lower.  All modifiers are 
cumulative in conjunctional magick.  However, they cannot go above +3 or 
below -3.  

Bonuses are given on the chart below.  You first need to know the day and 
date.  Then, go to the Months Table.  Find out the Enthronement type for 
that day on that month.  It can be Grand, Neutral, or Opposed.  Then, roll 
on the Modifier Table based on the Enthronement.  Then, consult the Days 
Table to see what Spheres will get a modifier that day.  Modifiers last 
from sunrise to sunrise.  

Example:  Valerius wants to cast Unseen Nomenclature (BoS p142) on his 
diary.  Today is Saturday, the 30th of March.  That makes today a 
Neutral Enthronement in the month of Aries.  Valerius is in luck because 
the GM rolled a 0 on the modifier table, giving today a base modifier 
of -1 to difficulty.  Looking at the Days Table, we see Mind is Favored, 
making the difficulty -2.  Matter or Prime may be Disfavored today.  
Valerius's luck does not hold here, the GM rolls a 1 and Matter is an 
Opposed Sphere today.  The base modifier -1 has 1 added to it: Matter 
gives a +0 modifier.  Prime gives no modifer as per the rule on selecting 
between Matter and Prime.  So, Valerius can roll at -2 to difficulty.

				Months Table

					      Enthronement Type
Month			Ascendent 	Grand	Neutral		Opposed
			Planet

Aries			Mars		Tue	Thu, Fri	Mon, Wed	
21 Mar - 20 Apr					Sat, Sun

Taurus			Venus		Fri	Mon, Tue	Thu, Sat	
21 Apr - 20 May					Wed, Sun

Gemini			Mercury		Wed	Mon, Fri	Tue, Thu
21 May - 21 Jun					Sat, Sun

Cancer			Moon		Mon	Wed, Sat	Tue, Sun
22 Jun - 22 Jul					Thu, Fri

Leo			Sun		Sun	Tue, Wed	Mon, Sat
23 Jul - 22 Aug					Thu, Fri

Virgo			Mercury		Wed	Mon, Fri	Thu, Sat
23 Aug - 22 Sep					Sat, Sun

Libra			Venus		Fri	Mon, Tue	Thu, Sat
23 Sep - 22 Oct					Wed, Sun

Scorpio			Mars		Tue	Thu, Fri	Mon, Wed
23 Oct - 21 Nov					Sat, Sun

Sagittarius		Jupiter		Thu	Tue, Sat	Wed, Fri
22 Nov - 20 Dec					Mon, Sun

Capricorn		Saturn		Sat	Mon, Thu	Fri, Sun
21 Dec - 19 Jan					Tue, Wed

Aquarius		Saturn		Sat	Mon, Tue	Fri, Sun
20 Jan - 18 Feb					Wed, Thu

Pisces			Jupiter		Thu	Mon, Tue	Wed, Fri
19 Feb - 20 Mar					Sat, Sun


				Modifiers Table

Grand Enthronement	Neutral Enthronement	Opposed Enthronment

Roll	Modifier	Roll	Modifier	Roll	Modifier	
1	+0		1	+1		1	+2
2-6	-1		2-6	+0		2-6	+1
7-0	-2		7-0	-1		7-0	+0				


				Days Table

For Favored, subtract 1 from modifier
For Neutral, use the modifer
For Disfavored, add 1 to the modifier

C/S = Correspondence/Spiri
M/P = Matter/Prime

Day	Favored			Neutral 		Disfavored		

Mon.	Binah/Corr.	Forces, Time, Mind, Life	Entropy, M/P*
	Yesod/Spirit

Tue.	Geburah/Ent.	Mind, Life, Time, M/P*		C/S, Forces
	
Wed.	Hod/Forces	C/S, Life, Time, M/P*		Entropy, Mind

Thu.	Chesed/Mind	Entropy, Time, C/S, M/P*	Forces, Life

Fri.	Netzach/Life	Forces, C/S, Entropy, M/P*	Mind, Time

Sat.	Chokmah/Time	C/S, Mind, Entropy, Forces	Life, M/P*
			
Sun.	Special**


*	On these days, Matter or Prime may receive a modifier.  On a 1, 
Matter gets modified, on a 0 Prime gets modified.  Any other result means 
no modifier for either.  

**	Roll randomly among the 6 other days to find which pattern will 
get bonuses today.  Matter and Prime are eligible for Favored status.  
Roll again.  On a 1, replace the Sphere randomly selected for Favored 
with Matter, on a 0 with Prime.  Any other roll means no modifier that 
day for Matter or Prime.  Sometimes, the randomly selected pattern for 
that day will make Matter and Prime eligible for modifier in addition to 
the one in the Favored column.  Ignore that possibility.

Predicting the astrological modifier

A Mage may attempt to predict the modifier for a given day.  The roll is 
Intelligence + Occult, difficulty 8, requires at least three dots in 
Occult.  If the Mage has the Astrology skill (at least two dots), or 
has Occult specialized in Astrology, the difficulty is 7.  Use of the 
Time Sphere can lower this difficulty as per BoS p112.  Normally, a mage 
only tries to predict for one Sphere at a time, so increase the difficulty 
by one for each additional sphere.  Each attempt takes one hour for 
consulting star charts or making observations, making calculations, etc.  
If you don't have reference materials or Eidetic Memory (from the Merit or 
generated with Mind effects) raise the difficulty by 2.  One success will 
let a mage know if the modifier is positive (bad) or negative (good) with 
zero being postive.  Three or more sucesses will give the mage the exact 
number.  Failure gives no information.  Botching gives incorrect 
information.  Making a prediction for the same day takes 30 minutes and
is difficulty 6.  Predictions for far in the future should take longer
and be more difficult - GM discretion.


Sympathies

Hermetic Mages are very big on sympathetic magick.  They will often go so 
far as to wear clothing, eat foods, wear jewelry, take actions, etc. that 
are in sympathy with/correspond to the kind of magickal effects they wish 
to produce.  A mage should receive bonuses for doing this consistently and 
should receive penalties if entirely out of step with the appropriate 
elements, planets, and Spheres at GM discretion.  

Please note that is not just flavor!  Orange things, to a Hermetic Mage, 
are not just symbolic of Jupiter.  They partake in Jupiter's very 
nature!  Thus, a GM could introduce a number of orange things into an 
adventure to give a mage a clue.  However, convincing the Virtual Adept 
in the party that the increasing number of orange things portends 
increasing NWO activity in their city is that Mage's problem and should 
make for interesting and fun roleplaying.

Conclusion

I hope you will see that this helps to explain much of the text in MtA as 
regards the Order.  A class of Apprentice Mages that graduates during one 
of the rare Grand Enthronments of Kether is probably destined for great 
things, but a class that graduates on a day with a poor astrological 
modifier will probably be mediocre at best.  The importance of the 
astrological modifier should generate Hermetics that want to delay doing 
certain magicks until next Thursday, after they have studied the myriad 
charts and books (or laptop computer for non-technophobes) they always 
seem to carry with them.  And, for those of you who have played with the 
other Paradigm pages, you already know it will makes for a better 
roleplaying experience to say "Using the energies of Yesod, I part the 
Veil" rather than "I go into the Umbra using Spirit 3." 

I hope that my efforts will provide more than just flavor, but a more 
comprehensive way of looking at the World of Darkness for Hermetic 
mages.  I hope some of you will be willing to take this Page out for a 
spin and tell me what you think, both theoretically and in game play.  
I think the little added complexity will be worth it to make your 
characters more complex.


Billy Bishop, cms/am		"Support Your Local Dominant Paradigm"
asbjb@acvax.inre.asu.edu



