From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Thu Aug 31 17:35:53 1995
Date: Thu, 31 Aug 1995 17:35:47 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
To: wod-l <wod-l@netcom.com>
Subject: Bedside Manners (Story)
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.91N2.950831173402.23620B-100000@hemul.nada.kth.se>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Status: O
X-Status: 

Bedside Manners

As soon as the man awoke, he began to pull on the thick straps that 
bound him to the bed. Rather methodical and calm so far, but his 
self-control was weakening fast, that much was obvious. 
'Why am I here? What kind of sick joke is this?' he demanded, with 
eyes filled with fear and anger. I sat down beside him on the bed 
and put my hand on his. His pulse was racing, not entirely from his 
agitation.
'What do you want? I have plenty of money, if you release me I can 
get you a check or anything! Just the fuck let me go!'
'Do you realise that your threats and promises are completely 
unoriginal, just like yourself?' I asked back, watching him for his 
reaction.
'You are some kind of sicko who gets off by playing fucking power-
games with people, aren't you! Get away from me!'. He was 
breathing hard now.
'Do you know what the bitter taste in your mouth is? Aconite, 
mixed with some other herbs. You are dying, Ralph.' I told him 
matter-of-factly. His reaction was a rather odd mixture of fear, 
disbelief and horror. Then he began to scream abuse again and I 
went to the sink to wet some handkerchiefs. They would be needed 
later.

After a while he tired of screaming, and hoarsely just asked: 
'Why?'. I returned to his side and looked at his sweating face. The 
eyes were wide with terror and the beginnings of pain. His pupils 
were black pinpricks on a field of brown. He had been bland before, 
like his conservative clothing, but now he looked downright 
interesting.
'Ralph, what day in your life has been the most important to you?'
'What do you mean?! You tie me down and try to poison me, just to 
ask me fucking personal trivia!'
'Its hardly trivial Ralph, your life may depend on it. Was it your 
wedding or when you first met Brenda?'
He looked more shocked by that simple question than when he first 
realised that what I had told him about the poison was true.
'Brenda... that was the happiest day in my life.'
'But was it the most *important *day in your life?'
'Oh my God... please make it stop! Of course it was, I loved her!'
'Did you really, or did you think you loved her?'. A quite banal 
question, as befitting a banal man giving banal answers.
'Of course I really loved her... I was ready to do anything...'
'But you didn't do it.' Those words stung more than the poison, and 
his whole body spasmed in a kind of cough.

'Please! Let me go! I haven't done anything!'
Ah, now we're getting somewhere.
'Exactly. That's the problem. You went to school and had the mind 
to get almost everywhere, but followed peer pressure and your 
grades were just above the mean. You met Peter, and mostly 
watched him destroy himself, and later you felt so guilty about the 
whole story that you invented the fact that he was a "lost soul" 
which no force could ever have saved - you even said that on his 
funeral!' Ralph was just staring at me, sweating and tense. I 
continued relentlessly 'Then you met Brenda, which you maybe 
even loved but you didn't dare to break the conventions enough to 
take the final step, so you settled for a cosy marriage with the 
daughter of your future boss. I'm not even going to mention your 
kids or your career - lets face it, you are a complete nobody who 
haven't ever done anything for yourself, you have never stepped 
out of line other than in your dreams and *possibly* when you 
actually complained about your traffic ticket last summer!'. After 
my outburst Ralph looked at me, eyes wide with surprise and pain. 
He saw the truth as clearly as I did, and whimpered. He knew that 
his death would be as insignificant as his life, and for the first time 
ever saw into the great beyond. Or maybe he had not heard me at 
all because of the pain and fear. He began to cry and moan louder 
now.

'But... there must be fucking *something*...' he exhaled. I wiped his 
brow with a wet handkerchief.
'A way out, you mean? You are taking it, you know.'
'No... please...'
'And I won't kill you out of mercy. I'm trying to tell you something 
with this.' Great, now I'm sounding like a bad television villain. 
'You're... killing me!'
'Yes. That's the whole point, really. To rid you off a worthless 
existence and possibly give you a chance for a new one... I hope.' 
Suddenly I realised I needed faith as much as Ralph did. What if 
the Good Death and everything we believed in was a hallucination, 
a straw to cling on, like father Tagliaferri had claimed before he 
died? What if I was *murdering* the helpless fellow securely bound 
to the bed beside me? A wave of doubt poured over me, but then I 
remembered my own initiation - *that*  could not have been a 
hallucination. At least not entirely. Even Ralph should be given the 
chance. I turned back to him, he was screaming louder now as 
muscle after muscle locked into their final cramps.

I whispered into his ear: 'I'm going to tell you a secret, Ralph. The 
poison increases your strength a lot - you no longer care if you 
injure yourself and your spasms are getting stronger all the time. 
You could probably break those bounds, kill me with a single strike 
and then get to the razors at the sink. That would end it all. Just 
blessed darkness, no pain.' Ralph must have understood my 
suggestion even if he did not understand my words, and began to 
struggle more. I watched dispassionately as he screamed and 
writhed, making the bed jump on the floor with me on it. Suddenly 
his right leg broke free from the leather straps, and with a violent 
twist (which I think broke his left arm) he broke free from the bed, 
throwing me to the floor. Ralph collapsed into a ululating pile 
beside me, bleeding from cuts from the splinters still strapped to 
his extremities and from the teeth he had crushed. He screamed 
until his lungs were empty (and they would never inhale again, 
ever), constantly twisting and seemingly filling the entire room 
with his cold pain. For an eternal minute he just lay there, locked 
into a brilliant universe of agony slowly decaying into a dark, 
welcoming heat-death of asphyxiation. 

I reached forward and touched his head. His face was locked into a 
rictus, eyes unblinkingly staring into infinity. I felt his essence, 
freed and activated by the pain, leave him to seek new possibilities 
(or did I just imagine that, to comfort myself?). The room was 
deafeningly silent and stank of urine and fear. I sat down on the 
remains of the bed and wept.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




