
X-Topic-No: 24
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 1995 20:14:20 -0800 (PST)
From: Brant Harvey <bharvey@gladstone.uoregon.edu>
To: Mage-l List <mage-l@wizards.com>
Subject: Bellerophon Tower -- 1 of 2
Message-ID: <Pine.SOL.3.91.950214200654.28472B-100000@gladstone>

This lengthy monster is a complete Etheric Laboratory (Chantry, for those 
non-Scientists among you), presented using the basic layout from the Book 
of Chantries.  This part deals with the Scientists of the Tower, while 
part 2 deals with everything else.

Bellerophon Tower, Chantry of the Prometheus Desert
     In the middle of a strange desert, beneath an alien sky, stands a
tower of gleaming steel.  Until two years ago, the tower was only a dream,
sketched out in a science-fiction novel.  But an ambitious Scientist
crafted a Realm around this dream, seeking a still-greater height. 
     The denizens of Bellerophon Tower, though sometimes fractious, are
united in a single quest: the acquisition of Mars.  However, their plans
have already begun to go subtly astray.  The Realm is not exactly as it
was designed to be, and it seems to have been invaded by unknown forces. 
The resonance of Bellerophon Tower is obscurely alien, and, in this
citadel of mutant dreams, anything can happen.  

Cabals
     Although the planning of Bellerophon Tower was performed by the
Olympian Circle, they were forced to rely upon another Etheric Cabal, the
Society of the Xenologic, for the Quintessence necessary to complete the
Realm.  There has been tension between the two groups, the Olympians
seeing the Society as pushy interlopers and the Society resenting this
attitude deeply, but, under the leadership of Dr. Otto Lichtenstein, the
Cabals work together excellently.  

The Olympian Circle
     Background: Several years ago, a German-American physicist named Dr. 
Otto Lichtenstein realized the ideal method of fulfilling his Grand Plan
to defeat the Technocracy, save the world, and bring about the first true
Utopia in human history.  All that was needed was a way to ease the
pressure of population on limited resources, while providing a showcase
for the best aspects of Science.  All that was needed was the terraforming
of Mars. 
     Lichtenstein swiftly assembled a crowd of fellow dreamers, and
invested them with his vision of bringing humanity to Olympus Mons. 
Unfortunately, without a Horizon Realm to work in, the best the Olympian
Circle could do was theorize.  It wasn't until Lichtenstein located
another Etheric Cabal, one with possession of an adequately-sized Node and
a huge supply of Tass, that Bellerophon Tower at last became possible. 
     The Circle is stretched thin trying to achieve the goal for which it
was founded.  Currently, it concentrates mostly on developing methods of
turning desert to arable land, and on methods of reaching the Red Planet. 
They are aware that this barely even counts as practice for Awakening an
entire planet, but are unwilling to dwell upon it.  

Doctor Otto Lichtenstein, "Etheric Scientist" (Questing)
     Nature: Architect
     Demeanor: Visionary
     Spheres: Correspondence 1, Forces 2, Matter 4, Prime 4, Spirit 5
     Dr. Lichtenstein is, of course, the heart and soul of the Olympian
Circle, and Bellerophon Tower itself.  Although unremarkable in appearance
and distant in personal relationships, he is a magnificent orator, and it
is difficult not to be swayed by his dreams.  His Utopian ideals and
Progressivist principles are infectious;  currently, the only
Bellerophonian not to think of the Sons of Ether as "Etheric Scientists"
is Professor Niles Greene.  Ironically, Lichtenstein doesn't really expect
the Martian project to succeed.  To him, Bellerophon Tower is simply a
means to an end, that end being the construction of a force which can
stand against the Technocracy.  He also hopes that the project may create
new techniques for the use of Science.  Currently, Lichtenstein's main
project is developing a method of constructing "ley lines" (conduits of
magnetoetheric energy) through the Deep Umbra.  

Professor Niles Greene, Son of Ether (Dynamic)
     Nature: Loner
     Demeanor: Curmudgeon
     Spheres: Correspondence 1, Entropy 1, Forces 4, Matter 1, Prime 2
     Niles Greene is the single least-liked resident of Bellerophon Tower. 
He is ill-tempered, sexist, obnoxiously nationalistic (he is English, and
can find fault with every other nation, including Scotland and Wales), and
generally rude.  However, one has to draw the line at calling him
immature, for Niles Greene is fifteen years old.  He is the newest member
of the Olympian Circle, having joined them just before the Realm was
completed, and feels that he is being unfairly discriminated against due
to his dual lack of seniority.  Should the Circle start to come apart, it
will start with Niles.  Right now, Niles' main project is building a way
of powering the entire Red Planet, preferably through Tesla-esque wireless
transmission. 

Professor Etienne Deveraux, "Etheric Scientist" (Dynamic)
     Nature: Avant-Garde
     Demeanor: Caregiver
     Spheres: Entropy 2, Matter 1, Mind 4, Prime 2, Spirit 2
     This Quebecois metaphysicist was known in Etheric circles for his
work on psychically attracting Native American spiritforms when
Lichtenstein approached him.  Professor Deveraux spent much time
regretting his decision to abandon the rich research opportunities of
Earth; then the Society of the Xenologic arrived, and the Professor knew
he had an unimaginable advantage over his Earthbound colleagues.  Contact
with the alien biocomputer is beginning to take its toll on Deveraux, and
his normally cheerful demeanor has become infected with an indefinable
strangeness.  Professor Deveraux's main task is the prediction of the
psychological and sociological effects of colonization.  

Doctor Mao Shih, "Etheric Scientist" (Questing)
     Nature: Deviant
     Demeanor: Conformist
     Spheres: Forces 2, Life 5, Matter 2, Mind 1, Prime 3
     Dr. Mao Shih was a prominent Beijing physician, until she became
obsessed with what she called "electrodirection of biological processes." 
Using a combination of acupuncture and electroshock therapy, she developed
entire new realms of medicine.  Fortunately, an Akashic Brother named Chao
Li (see below) was able to save her from the Technocracy when her
experiments became too obvious and too bloody.  Even Chao Li is unaware of
the extent of Mao's madness, seeing only the submissive front she puts
forward.  Dr. Shih's main task is developing the new forms of life
necessary to terraform Mars.  

Chao Li, Akashic Brother (Questing)
     Nature: Visionary
     Demeanor: Judge
     Spheres: Correspondence 3, Forces 1, Mind 2, Prime 1, Spirit 3
     Chao Li sometimes jokes that he's simply the bodyguard for the
Olympian Circle.  In reality, the sober martial artist is as important as
Dr.  Lichtenstein in keeping the Chantry together.  He is at once the
anchor of stability which keeps the Scientists from becoming lost in
esoteric theory, and the inspiring force which moves the Laboratory to
blaze new paths.  Chao Li is also extremely good at finding ways to
justify Science through quantum physics.  Unfortunately, he has begun to
neglect the Circle of late, concentrating instead on hunting down Icarus
(see below).  He fears that the winged man might have some connection to
his old friend Mao, but does not wish to speak until he has some form of
proof.  

Jane "B-Loop" McIntyre, Virtual Adept (Dynamic)
     Nature: Conformist
     Demeanor: Rebel
     Spheres: Correspondence 2, Forces 2, Mind 1, Prime 1, Time 3
     "B-Loop" was originally hired by Lichtenstein to give the Realm
computer access.  She has since proven her worth repeatedly, such as by
developing "prophecy programs" capable of limited prescience.  Despite the
fact that she seems willing to expound on her beliefs on any subject, the
young Cyberpunk refuses to explain a great deal of things.  None of her
Chantrymates know what her childhood in Phoenix was like, or how she
received her name.  B-Loop becomes oddly quiet and restrained when dealing
with Lichtenstein.  

The Society of the Xenologic
     Background: In 1938, the year some claim to have hosted the
unsuccessful Ka Luon invasion, a Son of Ether named Harold Munnell
captured from unidentified beings a large store of Tass, and a strange
artifact.  He dubbed this artifact, apparently a biological computer, "the
Xenologic," and assembled a Cabal to study it.  Unfortunately, the
Xenologic was not only too incomprehensible to be understood without years
of work, but was so delicate that it inexorably degenerated even outside
of the Technocratic reality.  The Society relocated the artifact to
Victoria Station, preserved it in a Temporal Nullification Field, and
devoted their energies to comparing what little information they had
obtained from it with the topography of the Deep Umbra. 
     As the decades passed, the original intent of the Society faded, and
they became little more than yet another group of Ethernauts.  When the
Cabal was ejected from Victoria Station due to interpersonal problems, it
seemed that the Society of the Xenologic was doomed.  Then Dr.
Lichtenstein approached their young Captain with an offer of partnership,
and the decaying Cabal experienced a resurgence in energy.  The
Xenologicians have devoted themselves to the Olympian Quest, and have even
begun to remove the Xenologic from stasis for short periods, in order to
study it. 
     The Society has a medium-sized ethership, originally named Lady X,
which has been renamed the Pegasus in keeping with the mythological
imagery of the Tower.  The Pegasus now spends much of its time docked near
the Tower, but is still taken out for long voyages every month or two. 

Captain Elizabeth Norton, "Etheric Scientist" (Dynamic)
     Nature: Martyr
     Demeanor: Director
     Spheres: Forces 3, Matter 2, Mind 2, Prime 2, Spirit 4
     Captain Norton inherited Lady X from Munnell when he died at the
hands of a Void Engineer barabbi.  She thought of the Cabal's founder as a
sort of substitute father, and has never truly recovered from his death. 
Despite her disciplinarian air, Norton is confused and insecure, and
blames herself (wrongfully) for her Cabal's eviction from Victoria
Station.  Partially because of this guilt, she will not, under any
circumstances, allow anything bad to happen to her crew.  She is beginning
to gain faith in herself now that she has secured a place for the Society
of the Xenologic in a Laboratory.  

Professor Gordon Laws, "Etheric Scientist" (Questing)
     Nature: Fanatic
     Demeanor: Loner
     Spheres: Correspondence 4, Matter 2, Prime 2, Spirit 3
     Nobody but Captain Norton knows of the fire that burns beneath Gordon
Laws' mask of sullen detachment.  Laws is obsessed with destroying the
Technocracy, starting with the hated Void Engineers.  Norton sees Laws as
a potential danger to both the Society of the Xenologic and to Bellerophon
Tower itself, but has weighed this risk against Laws' utility as a
navigator.  The Professor has twice saved the Pegasus by simply
teleporting it out of Void Engineer ambushes.  Laws plans to learn enough
about Prime to create a Device capable of doing this on a regular basis. 

Sascha Koscovich, "Etheric Scientist" (Dynamic)
     Nature: Visionary
     Demeanor: Bon Vivant
     Spheres: Forces 2, Matter 3, Mind 2, Prime 1, Spirit 2
     Had an Ecstatic Cultist named Ignatius (see below) not arrived at his
favorite club fifteen minutes late, Sascha Koscovich's life would have
gone very differently indeed.  As it is, Koscovich became so involved in a
discussion about science and the true nature of reality that she
completely forgot about her date with the famous local singer. 
Koscovich's conversation partner, a Son of Ether, Awakened her that night. 
By morning, the energetic young woman had begun to develop theories which
conflicted with her Mentor's; this trend still continues.  Sascha departs
from standard Etheric tradition by concentrating on light and color rather
than electricity;  her pet projects range from aura photography to
altering moods through color to attracting spirits by "resonant
polydimensional spectrography."  She usually has at least one temporary
Paradox Flaw related to this, such as a polychromatic aura or bright
violet hair and nails.  She still spends much of her time with Ignatius,
and Niles Greene accuses her of acting like a Cultist.  

Ignatius, Cultist of Ecstasy (Primordial)
     Nature: Caregiver
     Demeanor: Bon Vivant
     Spheres: Life 4, Mind 2, Prime 2, Spirit 1, Time 2
     Ignatius is in the habit of letting reality take him where it will. 
When he met the guitarist of the newly-leaderless "razorfunk" group
Surrealistic Nacho, he let himself drift into the role of the new lead
singer.  When he met a near-Awakened girl after a gig, he let her talk him
into a date, where he would begin her apprenticeship.  When he arrived
fifteen minutes late and found that she had moved on to another Destiny,
he let her go.  And when his Avatar appeared to him in the form of a
golden unicorn and told him that his Destiny lay with hers, beyond the
reach of the living Earth, he let it run his life.  Ignatius is basically
along for the ride; but oh, what a ride!

------------------------------

The Nodes of Bellerophon Tower
     Lizette Mound: A so-called "faerie mound" located just outside of
Lizette, Quebec, this Node is connected with a few local legends of
mischievous dwarves.  These dwarves, which were only active during the
full moon, have not been sighted by any witnesses since the construction
of the Tower, two years ago.  Tass sometimes collects here in the form of
small, brightly-colored flowers. 
     The Umpqua Site: This Node, located in western Oregon, is entirely
devoid of the spiritual qualities which usually indicate a Node.  It might
never have been located if it hadn't become associated with sightings of
the Ka Luon.  It was here that Munnell, searching for the aliens, acquired
the Xenologic.  UFO sightings in the vicinity declined after Munnell's
encounter, but have been on the rise since the Tower was created. 
     Lichtenstein Tower: Dr. Lichtenstein, believing he had sufficient
knowledge of Prime to create a Node, decided to test out this theory in
the middle of the Mojave Desert.  Although his construction, a
fifteen-foot tower of iron struts which glows at night with electrical
discharges, does indeed produce Quintessence, it does so erratically.  It
seems to function best just after being struck by lightning.  The Tower
displays many other quirks; for instance, it has been attacked twice by
flocks of birds, and once by a small army of lizards.  It is also often
surrounded by a shimmering "mirage" which, thankfully, obscures it from
any Sleepers wandering the desert.  Because of these irregularities, and
because Lichtenstein himself was nearly killed by a Prime surge during the
creation of the Node, no similar experiments are planned for the future. 
     Petrotta's Workshop: The warehouse district of St. Louis holds this
small, inconspicuous Node, which was originally used as a workshop by the
alchemically-oriented Son of Ether Reynaldo Petrotta.  One of Dr.
Petrotta's last works was a homunculus, a miniature man created through
alchemy.  According to Petrotta's journal, the homunculus experiment was
indeed successful, but no trace of it has ever been found.  Several
Laboratory members have reported that, while nobody is in the workshop,
somebody rearranges its contents, but none have yet proved it.  

The Horizon Realm 

Basic Concept
     Bellerophon Tower is built in the middle of the Prometheus Desert,
which was originally conceived in the mind of its creator, Dr.
Lichtenstein.  Although nobody can accuse Lichtenstein of being stupid or
incompetent, he's not exactly original: the desert has a suspicious
resemblance to Arizona.  This resemblance disappears at night, when the
true nature of the Realm becomes evident.  Prometheus' night sky,
definitely not that of Earth, shines with the light of two moons and a
dazzling sea of alien stars. 
     Considering its youth -- the Realm is very definitely in Spring -- it
shouldn't be surprising that the desert is still almost entirely
undeveloped.  However, it may be somewhat shocking to find out that the
desert isn't actually fully explored, either.  Lichtenstein published a
science-fiction novel containing a description of the Realm about five
years ago; few people read it (it wasn't very good), but the Scientist
gambled on even this minimal belief aiding in the construction. 
Unfortunately, he turned out to be more right than he knew, and those who
read the novel added their own interpretations and imaginative beliefs to
the Realm.  Thus, the Prometheus Desert is a mystery even to its maker. 

Environment
     The desert is reasonably benign as deserts go, with few violent
storms and only hot rather than blistering weather.  Further, there are
copious water-bearing plants scattered throughout the sands and rocks, so
plentiful, obvious, and easy to use that it seems almost as though they
were created to help sustain life in the desert.  (They were -- this is
part of the Laboratory's terraforming scheme.)
     The zoology of the Realm is extremely weird.  The Scientists brought
in standard, southwestern American desert animals, such as lizards, when
they first arrived.  Now, two years afterwards, this bland ecosystem is
clearly no longer in existence.  Instead, everything from bright- plumaged
eagle-like birds to illogically immense lizards to manticores have been
sighted. 
     This reveals an as-yet-unproven environmental hazard: mutation.  It
seems that Lamarckian evolution is in full effect in Prometheus, which
would fit well with some of the ideas expressed in the novel. 
Experimentation has shown that Life Science is easier, particularly that
dealing with transformation, and that changes to an organism seem to be
expressed in its offspring.  It is suspected that this can affect humans,
as well, but this has not been observed among the Laboratory's Sleeper
staff yet.  In light of this odd feature of the Realm, its inhabitants are
arguing over whether or not to rename it the Proteus Desert.  

Denizens of the Realm
     The desert is supposed to be uninhabited.  However, explorers have
seen a winged man (nicknamed "Icarus") flying in the distance on several
different occasions.  There have also been two encounters with mysterious
lights and unexplained laughter--the Scientists have not yet decided
whether this is evidence of the Faerie or of stranger beings.  Professor
Deveraux is investigating both rumors through the development of a
"psychic radar" system capable of homing in on sentient minds.  

Sphere Effects
     Life Science is indeed easier to perform in Prometheus, and skill
checks against transforming effects (Shape Tree, Better Body,
Metamorphosis) receive a +4 bonus to skill.  Attempts to control
randomness through Entropy are just slightly more difficult, and effects
such as Statistical Delation Through Paradigm Alteration will receive a -2
penalty on skill.  This same penalty occurs while trying to predict the
future through Time, and any failures due to this penalty will result in
he prediction of a wildly improbable future.  There may be other effects
on Science in the Realm, but they have yet to be discovered.  

[Note that these effects are for GURPS rules; in Storyteller, the bonus to
Life is -2, and the penalty to specific Entropy and Time effects is +1.]

Chantry Description
     Bellerophon Tower: The Tower rises like an arrow of gleaming steel
from the desert sands.  It is easily the size of some New York
skyscrapers, although more slender, and less efficiently designed.  The
overall effect is one of ambition, with just a touch of bad taste.  The
Tower is constantly under construction on the inside.  For example, there
are three different elevator systems: a massive freight elevator which
works on steam, a semi-functional teleporter (it usually gets close to the
right floor), and an empty shaft which Greene uses for anti-gravity
experiments.  The stairs, oddly, get a lot of use.  Lichtenstein has
estimated that Bellerophon Tower could easily hold five times as many
people as it does now, though this might require some of the cluttered
workrooms of the Scientists to be emptied. 
     Bellerophon Tower is almost entirely self-sufficient.  The top five
stories contain a variety of electrohydroponic chambers, which grow plants
at five times the rate of nonelectrified hydroponics.  The electricity for
this is provided by solar paneling in the roof and outside walls, and the
water by massive hydrosilicate electroconverters in the basement, which
can turn sand and rock into water through the miracle of electricity. 
     In keeping with Etheric philosophy, the Tower is not very well-armed. 
Greene believes he could rewire the solar panels to become electrical
projectors, but, as with so much else in the Laboratory, this is still
untested.  However, the Scientists have a great transportation system at
their disposal: four "dune zeppelins," bus-sized lighter-than-air vehicles
designed to cruise about ten feet off the ground, at about the speed of a
bicycle. 
     St. Louis Office: The Earthly manifestation of Bellerophon Tower is,
rather disappointingly, a small office in a warehouse on the edge of
downtown St. Louis.  Should anybody actually hunt down this office, that
of an unlisted and unnamed book distributor, they would simply find a
dingy warehouse filled with far too many science-fiction novels.  This
warehouse also holds the Laboratory's Earthly assets, namely, a rather
battered delivery van and a mint-condition Edsel.  

Purpose
     The purpose of Bellerophon Tower is, in Lichtenstein's words, "to
reach Olympus."  The Chantry's goal is ultimately the terraforming and
colonization of Mars.  This hugely complicated task is being pursued in
dozens of different ways, from developing lifeforms capable of enduring in
the Martian soil, to attempting to predict the effects of colonization on
social structures.  The Society of the Xenologic is less involved with
this planning aspect of the project as it is with the development of safe
routes to the Red Planet. 
     Realistically, this purpose is subject to change.  Professor Laws
envisions converting the Tower into a War Chantry to fight the Void
Engineers for the Deep Umbra, and Lichtenstein himself secretly plans to
use the Laboratory to train a new generation of Etheric Scientists. 

History
     Bellerophon Tower is very young indeed.  Lichtenstein had drawn up
the plans while still an apprentice, but hadn't managed to do more than
correct them occasionally until he met Captain Norton at the Great Hall in
Paris.  Since she had the Tass and the Node he needed, and he could
provide the Laboratory she had been looking in vain for, they formed a
partnership.  The entire affair, however, has been fraught with
complications, little mysteries and unexplained deviations from the
original plan.  Since the actual creation of the Realm two years ago,
nothing particularly disastrous has happened, but neither have the
original ends of the Laboratory come any closer to being fulfilled. 

Chantry Inhabitants
     The Tower is decidedly short on servants.  Essentially, the
Laboratory is forced to rely upon the Acolytes of its various members,
which include an ambitious sci-fi writer, a nurse who Dr. Shih was
accustomed to working with, a clunky robot named "ZORTAK"  which Captain
Norton picked up off another group of Ethernauts, and, yes, a hunchbacked
dwarf.  Dr. Shih has offered to create a servitor race of mindless
tree-men to help with the chores, but she has yet to receive encouragement
from anybody.  

Internal Structure and Relations
     Never one to miss a detail, Lichtenstein made sure that the
Laboratory had a written covenant, one which, like the U. S. Constitution,
can (theoretically) be amended as the Chantry subject to it changes.  All
of the full-fledged members of the Tower receive a say in what occurs
within it, and are mostly autonomous in their own activities.  In
practice, Lichtenstein's personality controls the affairs of Bellerophon
Tower, and not even Professor Greene has objected to this. 
     The Laboratory also possesses a rudimentary legal code, dealing with
the means to both accept new members and expel old ones.  The code has not
been tested. 

External Relations
     Bellerophon Tower is still extremely young, and is well aware of it. 
They have not yet attracted much attention, although Lichtenstein plans to
publish an article about the Realm as soon as it is "finished."  The fact
that it likely never will be does not concern him much.  

Status and Reputation
     Bellerophon Tower is essentially unknown, but those who know of it
have little reason to disrespect it.  However, the fact that it was
constructed without consulting the Great Hall would likely tarnish the
Realm's image in the eyes of some of the more conservative Sons of Ether. 
     Status: 0
     Reputation: 2 

Policy Regarding Outsiders
     The Tower's Scientists are leery of being discovered by Void
Engineers or Nephandi, but realize that the Laboratory is too young to
survive without allies, and too small to survive without further
recruitment.  As such, they will be polite and hospitable to any who
stumble through a shallowing, but will be extremely careful not to reveal
any information they feel might harm them.  Visitors to the Realm may feel
oddly like prisoners.  

Allies and Enemies
     Luckily for the young Chantry, they have earned no obvious enemies
yet.  However, the Pegasus has thrice been ambushed by what appears to be
a single group of Nephandi Deep Umbrood, implying that the ship, at least,
has acquired a nemesis. 
     Unfortunately, Bellerophon Tower is almost as short of allies. 
Ignatius knows a few low-ranking Toreador, and all of the Etheric
Scientists have contacts in their Scientific society, but the Laboratory
has only one truly reliable ally.  Kath'kar, an adventuresome Umbrood, was
saved from Void Engineers by the Pegasus, and has since sworn eternal
service to Captain Norton.  Unfortunately, his only aid to date has been
providing a guardian spirit for the Lichtenstein Tower. 
     If the Ka Luon do exist, then there is certainly a good chance that
they are interested in the Realm.  However, they have not yet made a
confirmable appearance, and the rumors have not made clear how helpful or
hostile the aliens might be.  There is a chance that the Faerie might also
be aware of Bellerophon Tower, but, again, any opinions they might hold
about it have been kept secret.  

Research Capabilities
     The Tower is still limited in its research facilities.  It does
contain one of the largest collections of back issues of Paradigma in the
Tellurian, but members of other Traditions may not find this entirely
impressive.  The Laboratory also possesses an incredible collection of
science fiction, including some "lost" works of Jules Verne. 
     Fortunately, this same problem does not apply to workspace.  There
are more laboratories in the Tower than there are bedrooms, and most are
still empty.  Wandering these labs, full of experiments ranging from Dr.
Shih's demented parodies of botany to Niles Greene's sparking attempts at
Teslan transmission, would drive many Sleeper researchers mad. 
     The Laboratory's computer system is still unreliable, although B-Loop
has worked out a great deal of the bugs.  It is also the single best
method the Bellerophonians have of learning about the outside world. 
Deveraux and Ignatius each have their own sets of spies, but neither seems
to get much useful information out of them. 
     There is always enough Quintessence available to sustain the Node,
but a surplus is entirely dependent upon how well Lichtenstein Tower is
functioning (see above).  Professor Laws has advocated raiding Void
Engineer outposts for their Quintessence stores, but his enthusiasm is
unshared.  

Stories
     The basic mood of Bellerophon Tower is one of strangeness, and of
unrestrained futures.  From this point, everything is possible, even
possibilities which nobody has yet considered.  The unexpected will occur,
apparently of its own volition, and every mystery solved will engender two
new ones.  

Story Ideas for Bellerophon Tower
     1. While investigating a strange metal tower in the middle of the
Mojave Desert, the characters suddenly find that the land around them has
changed.  Trapped in the Prometheus Desert, they must brave giant lizards,
unseen antagonists, and the environment itself.  Even if they survive this
and find Bellerophon Tower, will the characters be able to convince the
Laboratory members of their good intentions? 
     2. The characters have been in constant conflict with the New World
Order of St. Louis.  While trying to infiltrate it, they discover that the
New World Order is performing some infiltration itself; it suspects a
young Etheric Laboratory within the city, and is attempting to place a spy
in it.  Will the characters risk blowing their operation to save this
Chantry? 
     3. The strange happenings in the desert suddenly become much more
frequent, mapped territories change inexplicably, and Scientists start to
disappear.  But who is actually causing this, and why are they doing it? 
And, most importantly, how can they be stopped? 
     4. The Pegasus will return from a voyage, but has brought a
Zigg'raugglurr stowaway with it.  The achronological being, loose in the
Realm, begins summoning allies through the Horizon.  Unless it was
stopped, it will have killed all of the Bellerophonians and used the Realm
as a beachhead for an invasion of Earth. 
     5. One of Dr. Shih's experiments goes hideously awry, and the plants
in the electrohydroponic chambers attempt to take over the Tower.  Can
anybody keep Bellerophon Tower from becoming a Little Shop of Horrors?






