From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Sat Sep 16 14:39:39 1995
Date: Sat, 16 Sep 1995 14:39:38 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
To: wod-l <wod-l@netcom.com>
Subject: Bionics in Mage
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.91N2.950916143236.951A-100000@musta.nada.kth.se>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Status: O
X-Status: 

The Magick of Bionic Implants

Mage is a game about philosophy and magick, not big guns or
fireballs. Thus it is important to understand the roles of such
things as bionic implants among different groups of mages, to
avoid turning mage into "Cyberpunk with Magick". A neural
interface is not just a piece of advanced hardware, it is a
symbol for the union of man and machine. A HIT Mark is something
more than just a terminator clone. 

When introducing bionic implants into Mage it is best to avoid
emphasising their technological implications (after all, they are
handled as a kind of talismans) and instead look at their
symbolism and how they affect the mood. Akashic Brothers with
wired reflexes and tactical computers belong in Shadowrun, not
mage. In Mage bionics is a prechronism (the opposite of
anachronism), a reflection of a (possible) future some mages seek
to bring about. 


The Bionic Struggle

Bionics (also erroneously called cybernetics) is an area of
technology the Technocracy have not scheduled to appear until the
first part of the 21st century, but just as with nanotechnology
and computers other forces are trying to wrest control over the
development so that they can lead it in their own direction. 
Iteration X and some Progenitors want to speed up the
development, the Virtual Adepts and Sons of Ether want to
introduce their own versions and the New World Order is
desperately trying to keep the lid on this Pandora's Box of
technology. 

The central problem is what role bionics will have: will it free
mankind, or turn it into another part of the Machine? Will it
free us from the flesh ("Metal is better than meat") or lead to a
new unity between natural and artificial? The mages involved in
the struggle all seek to tilt the balance towards their vision of
Ascension through all available means: paradigm engineering
through movies, science fiction stories, scientific articles and
Internet discussions;  practical research in the hope of
introducing bionics of some kind into the paradigm; political
manoeuvrings against other mages;  direct action against
competitors and the subtlest weapon of all, the creation of a new
vision of bionics. 


The Metaphysics of Bionics

Bionic implants are not merely tools, they are extensions of the
owners body and soul, they blur the line between man and machine,
between tool and user. 

Iteration X regard biomechanisms as the fusion of man and
machine, a step closer to their eventual goal of a technological
Ascension. Among the Iterator units implants are a sign of status
and conformism with the Machine. They are by definition useful
and functional, always given to Iterators for specific uses.
Iteration X cybernetics is cold and efficient, usually quite
rugged and often designed with military applications in head. The
biomechanics don't care for aesthetic considerations, and prefer
to make the devices as powerful as possible at the expense of
subtlety. 

The Virtual Adepts on the other hand see bionics as a way to
become closer to their own tools. By implanting technology they
get easier access to information and hopefully greater abilities
to manipulate it. However, it is a tool, not the goal in itself
(although some Adepts among the cyberpunks blur the line and
sometimes espouse almost Iteration X-like views, and the
cybergnostics are vocal in their disdain for the flesh). Most
Adepts dislike obvious implants or weapons and prefer electronic
systems linked to their brains, like the classic neural interface
or various co-processors.  Their bionics is usually very slick
and miniaturised, involving chrome, advanced composites and
carbon fibres. Like their programs, they are always elegantly
designed and often use subtle effects to function. 

The Sons of Ether have traditionally not been that involved in
bionics (despite that it was they who initiated the area during
their time in the Technocracy), preferring external gizmos. "What
is the point of a neural interface where you have to worry about
Paradox and rejection, when you could wear a Encephalographic
Control Helmet?" many noted. But being highly individualistic and
always ready to challenge other views, many have become involved
in the development of bionics in their own characteristic way.
Some build semi-mechanical interfaces, while other opt for
baroque biological re-designs. Many do not regard bionics as a
major goal for mankind, but the fusion of man and machine holds a
definite fascination to many etherites. One vocal group claims
that the next stage of the evolution of mankind is cybernetic;
they seek to find ways to extend the human body in all possible
ways. 

Most other traditions regard bionics with a mixture of distaste
and loathing. The Akashic Brotherhood regard it as pollution of
the mind and body. Bionics is especially anathema to the Verbena,
who see it as a blasphemy against the living flesh it is
implanted in.  Some Verbena have been known to forcibly "heal"
wearers of bionics against their will (an especially cruel and
deadly procedure against captured Iteration X units). 

On the other hand, bionics also opens up the mage to other
influences. As he moves closer to technology, technologically
oriented spirits and beings become closer to him. Some Virtual
Adepts actually have net spiders living symbiotically within
their implants. Some Sons of Ether claim that to truly be able to
design a machine you have to be part machine yourself. Iteration
X of course knows intimately that this is true and right.
According to some rumours, technology itself is slowly awakening. 

Mages with much bionic implants become slightly harder to affect
with Life and more sensitive to Forces and Matter; some have even
reported that the implants slowly spread through their bodies,
although this could be the result of technological Quiet. This is
a poorly understood area, but it seems that bionics introduces
completely new states of Quiet (not to mention Paradox). 


Paradox

One problem with bionics today is paradox. Despite great efforts
from Iteration X and the Progenitors, the paradigm is not yet
ready for it. Movies, science fiction and speculations on the net
support it somewhat, but it is not enough to avoid Paradox. As
noted in the Iteration X conventionbook, open use of cybernetics
among sleepers invites trouble, and each device will add as many
points of *permanent* paradox as its rating; these points won't
disappear until the bionic devices are removed. When dealing with
Paradox backlashes and flaws, these points count (should a severe
backlash occur when all points above the permanent paradox are
drained, the device will become emptied of Quintessence and stop
working). 

Paradox manifests in many ways against users of bionics. The most
common form is malfunctions of various kinds, like cybernetic
claws that won't fold back properly, distracting error messages
from an internal computer, cybernetic limbs which lock up and
wont move, cybereyes suddenly refusing to focus or artificial
hearts racing (or even worse, stopping). Usually they tend to
decrease the efficiency of the cybernetics or make it stop
functioning. 

At low levels these errors are minor or irritating, usually quite
instantaneous, like cyberclaws suddenly extending in a social
situation or a short series of spasms in implanted muscles. At
higher levels the problems may last longer or become more
serious, like jerky eye movements or constant system crashes in
the neuro- interface. Worse malfunctions include permanent
problems with the implants and life threatening errors (such as a
plasma cannon cyberarm begins to fire uncontrollably or a DEI
erasing parts of the mind). 

Other common problems are linked to the immune system of the
user: inflammations of the flesh surrounding the implant, which
could become severe if subjected to more paradox, rejection from
the body which will make the implant unusable and force its
removal, or neural degradation which could spread and cause
severe damage. At low levels this is just irritating, rashes of
the skin or some pains. At medium levels the problems are a
hindrance and impair the use of the implant. At high levels the
problems become life-threatening or completely disables the
implant, forcing its removal. 


Other Forms of Bionics: 

Nanotechnology is an area where Iteration X, the Virtual Adepts
and Sons of Ether also struggle. Using experimental
nanotechnological designs normal cybernetics can be shrunk to
cellular level or less (although that often is somewhat
unusable).  Chips could be created that doesn't show up unless
someone studies the brain with a microscope, Hypersynaptic
Reaction Systems could be hidden within the myelin sheath around
nerves and cyber-eye capabilities could be added inside a living
eye. Such experimental designs rate a *much* higher price, and
are seldom available. 

[The talisman rating is increased with one or two steps,
depending on the design. Note that the paradox is also increased,
despite the fact that it is less conspicuous; nanotechnology is
even less rooted in static reality than bionics]. 

Biological cybernetics is something the Progenitors are pushing. 
They regard the idea of implanting electronic or mechanical
devices as distasteful, replacing elegant biology with
rube-goldberg contraptions. They instead genetically reprogram or
culture organs with enhanced abilities, like stronger muscles,
poison-resistant tissues or neural nuclei with preprogrammed
reflexes. 

A third, bizarre form of bionics is purely magickal implants.
These have been found among some Marauders, and have caused a
considerable worry among both the Technocracy and Traditions. 
One Marauder had his left arm replaced with a Forces-pattern,
able to shift between fire, electricity, kinetic energy and a
liquid state.  At the autopsy of another she was found to have a
heart made of crystalline Prime patterned into a rose linked by
thin barbs to her spinal cord (apparently causing her much pain).
A third Marauder has been reported to have an open skull cavity
filled with shifting symbolic patterns sending controlling beams
of light to machines in the vicinity. It has been theorised that
there is some force somewhere that equips the Marauders with
these devices. 


Trade in Bionics

Bionic implants are more or less common among different mages. 
Iteration X are rarely seen without some kind of enhancements or
modifications. Some Virtual Adepts use bionic implants but the
great majority don't want them or have not yet been able to
afford them. Sons of Ether rarely use their own implants,
preferring to install them into others. The technocratic
conventions sometimes use implants, but they are quite rare and
often symbols of good inter-convention relations. 

It is quite hard to get bionics even for mages. The problem is
mainly finding one group of mages skilled enough to create it,
and agreeing on a suitable price. Usually there is a trade-off
between safety and the price. 

Iteration X has definitely the most reliable and efficient
implants.  The only problem is convincing the Comptrollers or AI
that it is in the interest of the Ascension Program to allow its
installation. Some adventurous mages have tried using implants
from captured iterators, only to find that it contained hidden
booby traps or overrides. 

The Core is a fringe group somewhere between Iteration X and the
Virtual Adepts, nominally allied to the traditions (but according
to rumours secretly supported by The Computer) which ruthlessly
pursue its vision of Ascension in a Horizon Realm somewhere. Core
bionics is beyond cutting edge (perhaps even tested on the
sleepers it is rumoured to kidnap for experiments), but finding a
representative without alerting the Technocracy can be hard, and
finding a suitable payment for these reclusive technomages is
even harder. 

Among the Virtual Adepts a cabal known as Maas Biolabs is very
well renowned for their designs. The Biolabs includes two
renegade Progenitors, and is very hot in the area of genetic
engineering beside bionics. They are possible to reach through
the right connections among the Adepts, but their schedule is
quite busy and their prices high. However, they are in constant
need of various minor services, and many hopeful Adepts do them
favours or do odd jobs in the hope of getting the chance to
implant something. 

A less expensive group is the Sons of Ether. In many cases it is
enough to have a sufficiently interesting idea for the etherite
to start surgery. On the downside the quality and logic of
etherite bionics is extremely individual; some regard the patient
as little more than a testing bed for a new theory, while others
give meticulous care to their patients and their implants. 

Most groups involved in bionics use the digital web to design it
and make some simulations of its function. Then they begin to
implement it physically, preferably within horizon realms or
powerful sanctums. Finally it is implanted within the patient,
also usually done within a Horizon Realm to prevent paradox
during surgery. The operation is usually quite complex, and
requires a mixture of Life, Matter and technomagick which is
quite specialised;  the few mages able to perform it are both
sought after and hunted. 

One big problem with current bionics is that it requires
quintessence to function well. Iteration X implants are notorious
prime-guzzlers, often requiring the user to carry with him
recharging units. Most implants draw quintessence from the
wearer, which can become directly dangerous when he is low on
quintessence and the implant needs a strong surge. Another idea
the Sons of Ether are experimenting with is fuelling the implants
via sub-spatial vortices from a remote chantry, but this has the
drawback that the link is quite detectable and open to attacks
from Prime/Corr magick. An even more theoretical design the Core
is rumoured to experiment with is using disintegrating Prime
magick to suck Quintessence from patterns in the vicinity to
power the bionics. The consequences are just too awful to think
of. 


Various Implants

It is very easy to come up with implants, any cyberpunk game
(especially Cyberpunk 2020 and Shadowrun) contains more than
enough devices. However, in Mage the implants also have more
esoteric properties. Here are some examples: 


Transponder *

This device was originally developed by the NWO for use against
the Masses, but among some mages it has become a useful tool. It
is a small chip implanted under the skin, which will respond to a
special coded signal (modern units also contain a tiny GPS
navigator). This way it is easy for a person who knows the code
to find the wearer to a very high precision, although the device
could easily become a very dangerous liability of the Technocracy
got their hand on the code... 

[If a technomage knows the code, he can use it to automatically
gain three successes on Correspondence magick involving the
target. ]


The Lenses of Dr Greenberg *

These implants are a trademark of the creative surgeon Dr
Greenberg. He noted that the lenses in our eyes are opaque to
many forms of radiation, which limits their usefulness
(especially for people who often work with strange energy
sources). He has developed a method to remove the living lenses
and replace them with artificial ones. These lenses transmit
ultraviolet light, which makes the retina fluoresce (the colour
perceived is a weird mixture of green and dark violet). By
putting a few drops of a solution developed by Dr Greenberg on
the eye with an eye-dropper, fluorescence will extend the visible
range into both the ultraviolet and infrared. An additional
effect is that the user will become able to see auras and
sometimes spiritual entities. 


Quintessence Storage Unit **

This little unit is implanted in a suitable body cavity, usually
the chest, throat or abdomen. It is a small cylinder of advanced
alloys linked to thin fibres extending a few centimetres in
various directions, able to store personal Quintessence for later
use or to fuel other bionics. Normally the unit passively just
sits there, but at a mental command (if the user has a
neurointerface or internal computer) or a pressure on a certain
spot, the unit will suck up Quintessence from the wearer and
store it. In the same way it can release it when needed. 

The QSU has many uses. One use which has proven very effective is
to hide magickal abilities from other awakened beings: by hiding
all Quintessence inside the shielding alloys of the unit, the
pattern of the mage appears to be about as Quintessence-rich as
an ordinary mortal to Technocracy scanners or the predatory eyes
of vampires.  One drawback is however that paradox backlashes can
blow up the unit when the Paradox reacts with the concentrated
Quintessence. 

[The Unit can store 5 points of Quintessence. When activated, it
will suck up Quintessence from the Quintessence Pool (This is
usually done when the mage is resting/meditating in a node). When
it is activated again, it will add its Quintessence to the pool.
If the mage suffers a paradox backlash of 5 Aggravated wounds or
more, the device will explode, doing as many wounds damage as it
contained Quintessence]. 


Neurointerface (Mind 1 Forces 2) **

This is the most popular implant among Virtual Adepts, for
obvious reasons. It is "simply" a connection between the brain of
the owner and a computer (or other suitable electronic device),
allowing the user to access information, control the attached
device or enter virtual realities of all kinds. Virtual Adepts
use it to escape the confines of their flesh and enter the Web
directly, with full contact between their brains and the digital
reality. To many adepts the experience itself is pure ecstasy. 

On the other hand, Iteration X also uses the interface but in a
characteristically practical and coercive way. They link together
with their machines to coordinate their work, and often to
receive reprogramming from them. 

Many different versions exist, ranging from specialised
cyber-jacks like the one in the Iteration X Exoskeletons which
are designed to run only a certain machine to ultra-advanced
devices giving the mage not only conscious access to the Net, but
also a high- bandwidth link to his subconscious (so called
Avatar-links). Some mages have devised radio-links (Forces 2 Corr
2) they plug into their jacks making it possible for them to jack
in even when they are far from their main computers, while others
have developed infrared links which do not require any clumsy
wires. 


Memory and Behaviour Chips

Another area where the Virtual Adepts have stolen technology from
the Technocracy is programming chips. These were devised by
Iteration X and NWO to control the actions of acolytes and
sleepers (although Iteration X does not hesitate to give them to
its units), but the Adepts have found other uses. The chips
contain stored mental patterns from other people (or artificial
ones), and when inserted into a neural jack (or surgically linked
to the brain) influence the behaviour of the person. 

The NWO have developed numerous mind control chips, ranging from
personality alterations (Nature and Demeanour can be changed)
over subliminal messages to downright mental control (the chip
takes over and executes a pre-programmed set of actions;  the
victim can be either unconscious during the "possession" or fully
conscious but unable to influence the actions). Iteration X makes
much use of chips to contain orders and reprogramming of the DEI,
not to mention suitable mood and personality alterations. 

Virtual Adepts on the other hand, often encode skills and
knowledge on the chips. Highly skilled people are sought out and
their skills downloaded into chips (this can be done either
voluntary or involuntary). Unfortunately, the more advanced and
complex skills recorded, the more of the source person's
personality, mood and views will colour the user while the chip
is active. Some Adepts actually try to gather chips from very
Elite programmers to gain new insight, but most stay away from
"overlays". 


Internal Computer

Many Virtual Adepts don't want to lug around a computer, and
would prefer to be able to access their computers with a thought. 
Some try implanting them into their skulls, with varied success. 

The main problem is finding the space; either parts of the brain
has to be removed (as in Iteration X's DEI, which removes parts
of the frontal lobe and limbic system), parts of the skull has to
be removed or the computer has to be housed within the chest or
abdomen and linked through fibre optics, which is quite damage
sensitive. Virtual Adepts are far too fond of their own abilities
and egos to remove parts of their brains, so this procedure is
most common among Iteration X. Replacing parts of the skull with
electronics makes it more vulnerable but also gives easier access
to the computer. 

The exact abilities and functions of the computer varies
immensely.  Some mages simply use it as a mental co-processor,
storing data instead of a notebook and calculating like a pocket
calculator.  Others essentially live with it as a constant
presence in their minds, a friend, mentor or even lover. A few
try to weave together AI programs with their minds, seeking to
become literally one with the computer. 

[ A computer replacing a part of the skull gives an extra damage
dice to all attacks against the head; if the damage is above 2
levels the computer is at least temporarily damaged. Computers in
the rest of the body might become cut off if the mage receives
more than 3 levels of damage. ]


Self Co-Processor ***

This is a fine example of Adept cybernetics. It is a small co-
processor linked to the frontal lobe of the owner strengthening
his sense of self. When it is first activated, it will begin to
record the mental patterns and the "self symbol" of the owner in
its neural networks. When the owner is subjected to attempts of
mind control or personality alteration, the co-processor will
resist this and try to keep the personality intact. One problem
with this device is that it also will attempt to resist natural
changes in personality, locking the personality into its original
shape (unless reset, of course). 

[The device gives 5 extra dice of countermagick in resisting all
Mind magick affecting the personality or free will of the owner;
illusions, mood manipulations and such things are outside its
range. ]


The Jewel *****

The Virtual Adepts all seek electronic immortality in some form,
and the Jewel is the ultimate tool for this purpose. It is an
extremely powerful computer housed inside a tiny diamond shell
(hence its name) extensively linked to the brain. It gathers
information from the actions and mental processes of the user,
slowly developing an accurate model of the mental patterns and
storing them in its semi-indestructible crystal lattice. If the
owner dies it is hoped the jewel can be retrieved and the pattern
uploaded onto the net or into a new clone body, using the Jewel
as the new brain. 

[The Jewel is quite damage resistant: It has a 5 point armour
against all damage, and will not be destroyed by anything less
than 3 points of damage directed specifically against it - just
blowing up the head of the owner will not damage it very much. 

The Jewel will gradually record the mind of the owner, and can be
used as a template for an upload or emulation. After the first
few weeks it has stored the general personality structure and
some basic skills, after about a year it has a passable but
simple model of the person, and after several years of use it
will contain an extremely accurate model of the mind, down to the
tiniest memory. 
]


Bionic Artefacts: 


Fractal Claws

A nasty device built by the downright psychotic Virtual Adept
called BRANCH END. The claws are hidden inside the outer joints
of the fingers, which they replace. On a mental command, they
telescope out into an impressive set of silver claws. When
striking a victim, another mental command can make the claws
split into a fractal tree of smaller claws, doing horrendous
damage to the flesh of the victim. As if this wasn't enough, the
claws can also spay poison into the wound, and BRANCH END is
rumoured to use the neurotoxin from Orchidea Nigra for this. 

[This device was created mainly for intimidation; despite his
reputation BRANCH END is a quite cautious person who dislikes
actual fighting. A Forces 2 Mind 2 effect allows the claws to
reflect light in just the right way to look *very* dangerous and
stylish. A Matter 3 effect allows the knives to divide into sharp
sub-blades, and keeps them ultra-sharp. He doesn't actually use
neurotoxin as his poison, but the claws can be filled with a lot
of other nasty poisons. ]


The Cybernetic Skeleton of Dr. Rahnberg

Dr. Rahnberg is known among the Sons of Ether for his passionate
letters in Paradigma about the frailties of the human body and
the manifold ways it could be improved in. He was crippled after
an attack on his laboratory by some of his many enemies, both
legs cut off by a plasma beam and his skin badly burned. Being
both desperate and unafraid of dying in the name of Science, Dr.
Rahnberg decided to rebuild himself using a HIT Mark that had
been immobilised by a falling wall when the laboratory collapsed. 
He instructed his assistants and disciples how to move his brain
into the skull of the HIT Mark, and do some other cosmetic
changes.  The result went beyond his wildest expectations, and
the subsequent paper in Paradigma met with great acclaim
(although some critics remarked that he now *looked* like the
members of the Convention he really belonged in too). 

[ To move a human brain into a HIT Mark body requires a lot of
work. First, a suitable body has to be found and somehow
deactivated without too much damage. The various control systems
used by Iteration X to ensure loyalty, like booby-trapped DEI
implants or overrides of free will have to be removed. This is an
extended Intelligence + Technology roll against a difficulty of
7, 6 successes are needed (in some versions more are needed). The
technician will not know the exact number of successes needed or
rolled; if he doesn't reach the necessary number some hidden
systems will remain, which could cause nasty surprises latter on. 

Then the living brain of the patient has to be moved into the
skull of the HIT Mark and connected to the electronics. This
requires some delicate surgery not yet possible without magick or
Progenitor assistance (Correspondence 3 Life 4 can be used to
move the brain, and Mind 3 Life 4 Matter 2 to integrate it with
the new body). Finally, the external biological shell has to be
repaired and possibly remodelled to suit the new inhabitant. 

The result is quite fearsome, a HIT Mark body with a human mind
to control it. However, there are some drawbacks with this
arrangement. One is that beside normal food, the person now also
needs quintessence recharging. A more serious problem is the
psychological impact of the change, there is a risk for
personality changes or even psychosis as the human mind tries to
handle being inside a killing machine. ]


Herpes Derived Progressive Neurodegenerative Disorder (HDPND)

The Progenitors don't like the idea of Virtual Adepts with
bionics at all, and Research Team TAU developed an insidious
weapon against such implants. It is a slightly modified form of
the usual type one herpes virus, almost indistinguishable from
the original. The virus causes small sores in the mouth, and
between infections it hides within nerve cells. However, when it
encounters neurones linked to bionic implants it will change into
an active form, replicating quickly and spreading through the
nervous systems. The result is at least severe and permanent
nerve damage to the nerves linked to the implant, and quite
possibly (if the implant is linked to the central nervous system)
death. 

Shortly after TAU had developed HDPND Research Director Cyrus
Webster pointed out that it would be an even deadlier weapon
against Iteration X - widespread use of HDPND would most
certainly lead to great losses among the iterators or force them
to retreat to Autocthonia and MECHA. The Administration decided
to keep the entire project secret from the rest of the
Technocracy. Any use of a HDPND strain (TAU has developed some
short-lived strains that will hopefully not spread out of
control) has to be cleared with the Administration. 

[ HDPND will not affect normal people in any way, except for the
usual effects of a minor viral infection. It can be cured with
Life, but most mages won't notice it if they aren't looking, and
to detect that it is in fact artificial requires a detailed
genetic mapping (Requires a genetic laboratory, Intelligence +
Medicine with a difficulty of 7). 

When it infects a person with bionics, it goes into attack mode
and will begin to destroy the nerves linked to the implant. The
first symptoms are usually minor malfunctions of the implant;
twitches of bionic arms, cybervision blurring or neural jacks
becoming unreliable. This is quickly followed by severe problems
with the implant, fever and often paralysis of the limb the
implant is in or severe lumbago if the implant is located in the
head. 

For each point of implants, the virus will do one point of
localised aggravated damage. The amount of damage can be
decreased with one point for each success of a stamina rolled
against 8 (botches give extra damage) and in addition quick
medical help (Within a few hours, Int + Medicine against 8) or
vulgar Life magick can ameliorate the disease. The damage will
destroy the nerves linked to the implant and possibly spread
further in the nervous system, causing paralysis, mental damage
or death. ]


Story Ideas: 

A cabal of Verbena have learned about the existence of HDPND from
the records they captured from a Progenitor courier. They
immediately realised the potential of the disease, and while they
lament it being an artificial perversion of nature they also
realised that the Progenitors had just strengthened something
that was already there. They immediately began to seek a way of
acquiring the virus and then spread it, hopefully making bionics
unusable on Gaia. The player characters learn about this in some
way, and are faced with a hard choice: should they help the
cabal, possibly gaining a fearsome weapon against the Technocracy
but also hindering the Ascension of the Virtual Adepts and Sons
of Ether, try to stop it and thus help the Technocracy, or do
nothing and let a group of fanatics raid a vault filled with
biological weapons? And what will the reaction be from the rest
of the Technocracy if it learns about HDPND? 

A package of biomechanisms from MECHA have accidentally (?) got
lost due to a computer error; instead of being sent to a
bioengineer working as a orthopaedic surgeon it ended up in the
hands of a completely normal doctor with a similar name. She
opened the package, and was surprised and a bit worried. Deducing
(correctly) that it was something very important that somebody
very powerful had lost, she immediately hid the package and
pretended to be completely unaware of anything strange going on.
Now Iteration X wants to get the package back, or there is risk
that the Masses gain access to powerful technology far too early.
On the other hand, the doctor is lying low and is secretly trying
to figure out what it is she has received, why it happened and
what to do with the implants.  This could develop into a spy
thriller as the hunt for the package heats up, but it could also
become a story about bionics itself, as the players become
involved in what could be the great breakthrough of implants
among the Masses. 

One of the player characters has a strange recurrent dream that
won't go away: a blackened skeleton covered with golden circuitry
in arcane patterns. Gradually this vision becomes stronger and
stronger, and begins to obsess the character. By following brief
glimpses received in near-subconscious states (such as just
before falling asleep, being knocked out or daydreaming) the
character can slowly find his way towards an unnamed grave in the
countryside.  Inside it he will find the skeleton. Apparently it
has been severely burned, but the golden circuits seems unharmed
and surprisingly active; brief flows of electricity and
quintessence glimmer within their lattices. Who was the skeleton,
and what does the circuits do?  Why has it contacted the
character? Strange powers are afoot, and behind every mystery an
even darker enigma hides. 

A Virtual Adept has had an major epiphany, gaining a tremendous
insight into the nature of information and consciousness. 
Unfortunately this insight also sent him into a deep Quiet; his
mind has closed into itself, creating a mental digital web within
his brain and implants which he cannot leave (or rather, cannot
*think* of leaving). What makes this Quiet somewhat unusual and
downright dangerous is that it is contagious; anybody linked to
his systems will be drawn into it and themselves become
contagious. There is a certain risk that it might spread into the
Web, causing a huge catastrophe. The only way to save him is to
enter this Quiet and help him break free in some way, but if this
fails the would-be rescuers will also be trapped. The Quiet is
heavily based on his visions of an information-based Ascension,
where information itself is alive and awake and evolving towards
unity with mankind. If the Adept somehow can break free from this
state where he believes he is close to Ascension (which might
even be true!), he might return to the physical world with a new
vision of information and how to interface with it.
Enlightenment, madness and the beauty of information meld
together into a labyrinth where escape might be a question about 
consciousness itself rather than solving a riddle. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




