Strange and Interesting finds in the Libraries


The Emerald Tablet of Hermes Trismegistrus
Original language: Greek, translated into most languages
The most important document of the entire Order of Hermes. It is a 
very brief text, containing the central precepts of the Order in a 
dense, allegorical form. Often the Tablet is accompanied by a 
lengthy hermetic exegesis.

The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abra-Melin the Mage
English translation by S.L MacGregor Mathers (1909) from a lost 
manuscript. Contains various rituals mainly involving the 
summoning of spirits and general hermetic ceremonialism. 
Especially important are the directions for creating the Oil of Abra-
Melin, which is a liquid form of Tass.

Liber Sacratus (The Sworn Book of Honorius)
Latin manuscript, attributed to Pope Honorius, 14 cent. A classic 
work of goetic magick, detailing the methods of summoning angels, 
demons and elementals. 

Al-Azif
Arabic manuscript from ca 700 AD, attributed to Abd al-Azrad. 
Latin translation 1487 by Olaus Wormius, English translation in
1586 by John Dee. An infamous and fortunatly rare work about 
Iblite magick and cosmology, banned by the Order of Hermes, 
the Celestial Chorus and the Inquisition.

Archidoxis Magica
Paracelsus (Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim), Latin book 
from 16th century AD. Alchemical and hermetic magick applied on 
medicine, healing and chemistry.

The Book of Dzyan
Edited by H. P. Blavatsky, 1900. One of the central books of 
theosophism, reputedly a translation of the real, secret book of 
Dzyan which is kept in secret by the Invisible Masters. 

The Book of the Composition of Alchemy
Translated by Robert of Chester into Latin from arabic text 1144, 
several manuscripts. Alchemical processes.

De Heptarchia Mystica
Latin manuscript by Dr. John Dee, 16th century. Details the spiritual 
hierarchies linked to the planets and their forces, and how these 
beings can be summoned according to classic hermetic methods.

Khandana Khanda Khadya (Breaking into bits and devouring)
Sanskrit manuscript by Sri Harsa about the nature of Time in the 
Advaita Vedinta tradition of Samkara, which regards as the world 
as unreal. He especially attacks the arguments that Time is 
anything else than an illusion.

Clavicula Salomonis (the Greater Key of Solomon)
A Latin text attributed to King Solomon. Exists in many translations 
and versions. This is the most famous book about goetic magick and 
demonic evocations. 

Lemegeton (The Lesser Key of Solomon)
Latin manuscript attributed to King Solomon, 12th century. Various 
demonic evocations. 

Corpus Hermeticum
A Latin & Greek book, attributed to Hermes Trismegistus. One of 
the central works of hermetic thought.

De Nigromancia (Concerning the Black Art)
Latin manuscript attributed to Roger Bacon, 16th century. Goetic 
summonings, especially of wraiths.

Ars Magna et Ultima
By Rimondo Lully, 1600 AD. Latin manuscript about the powers and 
methods of magick.

The Tower of Koth
Manuscript written in bastardized Hebrew and Greek, probably 1st 
century AC. Author unknown. One of the more notorious discussions 
about Nephandi philosophy and magick, reputed to have seduced 
many mages into the darkness. It contains several symbols and 
seals used in communications with the Outer Lords.

Etheric Engineering in Theory and Practice
Dr. William Heart, Edingburough, Progressive Publishing 1901. A 
detailed explanation of the fundamentals of etheric engineering, 
how to collect ether, how to store it, its various properties and how 
it can be applied to a variety of problems. Notoriously paradox-
inviting.

The Song of the Black Turtle
Verse epic from the Andala tribe of nothern Angola. It details the 
creation of the world, the spirits ruling it and the 32 names of the 
servants of the winds. The most common English translation is by 
Sir Wallace Webster, London, Gilligan & Son 1878. 

Two Essays on the Worship of Priapus
By Richard Payne Knight. Discusses Greek sexual- and fertility-
magick.

The Secret Notebooks of Nicolai Tesla
Photocopied manuscripts in English and Hungarian of the visionary 
designs of Tesla and his radical theories about beaming electric 
power and global communications. Reputedly the manuscripts were 
smuggled out from the Technocracy who aquired them after the 
death of Tesla. 

The Tablets of Assur-bani-pal
Babylonian clay tablets, 7th century BC. King Assur-bani-pal 
gathered one of the first major magickal libraries. The tablets 
contain various invocations to the gods, ceremonies and sorcerous 
processes. 

The Ocean of Mysteries
Very rare manuscript of Persian origin (?). Arabic ceremonial 
magick, especially the evocations of the djinni and genii.

The Book of Overthrowing Apep
Egyptian scroll, written in heiroglyphics. It contains twelve 
chapters, each dealing with another aspect of the snake-demon 
Apep and how it can be banished. 

The Secret Writings of Ibn Khaldun
Attributed to Ibn Khaldun, 14th century. Arabic manuscript 
describing his theory that magick exists in two forms; pure magick 
which is only from the mage himself, and talismanic magick which 
uses spirits. It describes special states of trance and meditation 
suitable for various forms of magick.

The Maqlu Tablets (The Tablets of Burning)
Sumerian clay tablets (exists in various translations). Several 
ancient and potent banishings agains demons.

Atharva Veda
Manuscript in sanscrit. A secret brahminic work containing rituals 
and spells for various purposes, such as curing diseases, evoking 
spirits, talismans, exorcisms and invocations of the gods. Its most 
famous ritual is a chant used to grant immortality.

Secrets Merveilleux de la Magie Naturelle et Cabalistique de Petit 
Albert
Grimoire probably written by Albertus Magnus in 1272, in French. 
Contains instructions for the creation of a Hand of Glory.

Liber Martii
A Latin book from around 300 AD, written on thin iron plates and 
bound in human skin. It contains the prayers and invocations used 
in the cult of Mars. 

De Naturae Mysteris
Andreas Arenamontanus, Latin manuscript collection, 11th century.
About the powers of various talismans, artefacts, herbs, mythical
animals and secret signs. Often inacurrate, but nevertheless very
useful. 

Liber XXX Aerum (The Vision and the Voice)
Aleister Crowley 1909, in English. A description of a series of 
visions and invocations performed by Crowley and his assitent 
Neuberg in the desert of Algeria. The visions explore the secrets of 
the High Umbra and its denizens. 

The Ocean of Dust
Manuscript about the fundamentals of Euthanatos philosophy, the 
nature of death and decay and various other topics in the form of 
short aphorisms or sentences. The author is unknown, and the book 
exists in many different versions and languages. 

Rare and Exotic Herbs of the Tropical Rainforest and Their Medical 
Uses
Dr. Jonathan Geiger, London, McNamara, 1970. A monumental work 
about the more bizarre properties of rare plants. Sons of Ether 
medicine and chemistry.

777
Aleister Crowley. A standard reference work in the Order of 
Hermes for cabalistic and numerological correspondences and 
symbols.

The Hidden Geometry of the Universe
Simon F. Duane, London, Greyhound, 1881. A complex work about 
the subtle geometric secrets underlying all of existence and how 
space relates to time and energy.

Liber Paginarum Fulvarum
Latin book of unknown origin, quite possible a translation from the 
Greek. One of the most infamous books about the summoning and 
binding of spirits, demons and other beings. Contains a veritable 
catalogue of seals and true names only the most foolhardy mage 
would dare to use.

The Million Petalled Lotus 
Manuscript in Sanskrit, detailing ancient secrets of tantra yoga and 
the use of various potions and meditations in sexual magick.

Eis und Feuer Magie
Heinrich von Hallstein, Hamburg, Kirchdorfer 1934. A rather 
infamous classic about teutonic magick and race-mysticism. 

Visiones Divinorum
Helene de Alembert, 1723. In Latin. A series of meditations on the 
divine and its relation to the material world, filled with beautiful 
Catholic imagery. 

Xenobiologica
Xavier F. Cantavo, Berlin, Hartmann, 1971. An invaluable reference 
guide to mythical animals and strange events across the world. It 
contains descriptions and compilations of sightings, evidence and 
theories about unknown lifeforms in the world. 

Creative Surgery
Medical guide, author unknown (although a Son of Ether barrabi is 
probable). Probably written early this century. Contains detailed 
descriptions of how to perform drastic surgical modifications of 
humans and animals, creating bizarre hybrids or sickening new 
organs. 

The Magical Calendar of Tycho Brahe
Printed engraving in Latin, attributed to Tycho Brahe. 1620. 
Astrological lore.

Die Chymische Hochzeit des Christian Rosencreutz
By Johann Valentin Andreae, Strassburg, Zetzner, 1616. In german. 
Classic book about rosicrucian alchemy, written in allegory.

On Vampires, Ghosts and Other Imps of the Devil
Arthur Berensborough, London, Davell, 1798. A quite complete 
collection of lore about vampires, faeries, ghosts, demons and other 
denizens of the night. Due to its completeness it is now very rare.

The English Physitians Guide: Or A Holy Guide
By John Heydon, London, Ferris, 1662. Rosicrucian healing magick, 
early technomantic thought.

Sepher Yetzirah (The Book of Formation)
Several manuscripts in Hebrew, attributed to Simeon ben Yochai 3-
6 century AD. A lengthy and detailed description of the Cabalistic 
system. 

The Zohar (The Book of Splendor)
Attributed to Simeon ben Yochai, printed in the 14th century by 
Moses de Leon in Hebrew (other translations exist). One of the 
central works of the Cabala, detailing the secret structure of reality.

De Rerum Natura
By Lucretius, in Latin. A five volume treatise written in verse about 
the true nature of matter, life and energy. Ancient technomantic 
pattern magick. 

Sargozast-i Sayyid-na
by Hasan-i Sabbah, Arabic manuscript. About the secret wisdom 
and theories of the sect that latter would become known as the 
assassins. Hidden inside the text is the geometrical keys to the 
paths of Mount Qaf, which is identified with Alamut. 

Conclusiones Magicae
by Pico della Mirandola, in Latin. A classic overview of hermetic 
magick.

Lands Beyond
by Sprague de Camp and Ley, New York, Rinehart 1952. Son of 
Ether geography, especially the Hollow Earth, the djungles of Venus 
and deserts of Mars. 

Mundus Subterraneus
Athanasius Kircher, Amsterdam, Jansson 1665. About the secret 
pathways, caves and worlds inside the Earth, and what powers and 
beings exist there.

Trattato sulla Quintessenza
Johannes de Rupescissa, in Italian. About the alchemical and occult 
properties of Quintessence and how it can be purified.

La Poule Noir (The Black Pullet)
Author unknown, printed 1740 in French. A somewhat improbable 
or allegorical description of the secret of the Pyramids and practical 
magickal rotes.

Liber Al vel Legis
Aleister Crowley, 1904. In English. Channeled manuscript 
containing dense occult references to hermetic magick, Egyptian 
religion and Taoism. According to its followers it is the law of the 
New Aeon, which will overthrow the old Aeon and bring a new age 
of change and power. 

Somniorum Synesiorum
Gerolamo Cardano, Basilea 1562. A treatrise in Latin about the 
nature and meaning of dreams and their magick.

Operum Volumen Secundum
Paracelsus, Genevae, De Tournes 1658. Part of Paracelsus alchemical 
and medical treatises. Includes the formulas for the creation of an 
homunculus.

Dogme de la Haute Magie
Eliphas Levi, Paris, Baillére 1856. A classic survey of ritual magick.

De Arte Cabalistica
Johannes Reuchlin, Hagenhau, 1517. A classic work on cabalism and 
numerology.

The Teachings of the Tenfold Enlightened One
Manuscript in ancient Chinese. About the nature of reality, dragons 
and taoist alchemy discussed by an unknown teacher and his 101 
students. 

Kama Sutra, the unexpurgated version 
Classic text of the Tantrcs of India. Contains several rituals of sexual 
nature.

Fifteen Meditations on a Bamboo Staff
Poem written in Mandarin, author unknown. According to some 
schools of Akashic Brothers one of the best descriptions of Do and 
the world. 

Nonlocality in Modern Physics
Vladimir Roganov, New York, Freeman, 1965. Technocracy theories 
about the non-existence of space and time.

The Secrets of Life and Death
An unfinished manuscript by Victor Frankenstein, detailing his 
research and theories. 

On the Fundamentals of Analysis 
by Srinavasa Ramanujan, unpublished manuscript. A short treatise 
on the central theorems of mathemagick, heavily suppressed by the 
Technocracy.

De Iuvene Aeterne
Arnaldus Villanovanus. A short manuscript from the 11th century 
in Latin, detailing an alchemic procedure for achieving eternal 
youth. 

De Natura Animalium
Claudius Aelianus, ca 350 BC. A book in Latin detailing the 
appearance, behavior and properties of many real and mythical 
animals. 

Geheimnissvoller Heldenschatz (The mysterious hero-treasure)
Johannes Starchius, 1615. A German book about rotes useful in 
battle and medicine. 

Tetrabiblios (Quadripartitum Claudius Ptolemaei, The Four Books of 
Ptolemy) and Megale Syntaxis
By Ptolemaios, 2nd century BC in Greek. The classic works of 
Hellenic astrology, used as standard reference by most of Order of 
Hermes.

Liber Sibyllinum
Latin fragmentary manuscript, reputed to be a transcription of one 
of the Sibyllinian books, foretelling the future of Rome and the 
world. 

De Occulta Philosophia
Agrippa, 1510. Discusses how magick correlates with religion and 
science. An attempt to reconcile the Order of Hermes, Celestial 
Chorus and early Technocracy.

The Grimoire of Claudius of Heidelberg
12th century, in Latin and German. A Goetic text about the spirits of 
transportation and divination. Hidden in a cypher is a chorist 
treatrise on the nature of destruction and armageddon.

The Rending of the Ten Veils
Gnostic text from the first century BC, written in greek. Delineates 
the ten steps from mortality to reuninon with the Godhead, and the 
purifications which has to be undertaken.

Thronum Mirabilis
Illuminated latin manuscript, 14th century, describing the occult 
and religious splendor of the Throne of God. Contains several 
important prayers to the Archangels and Dominions. 

The Hymn of Pythagoras
Greek manuscript of unknown origin, attributed to Pythagoras. 
Contains the secret teachings of Pythagoras in verse, detailing the 
relationship between music, geometry, space and time. 

The Lost Book of Euclid
Arabic translation of the final book of Euclid's Elementa together 
with a long explanation by Al-Kashi on the occult properties of the 
geometric figures. 

Five Treatises on the Letter Aleph
Solomon ben Hadai, Prague 1551, in Hebrew. Cabalistic theories 
about the innermost nature of the world, the powers and polarities 
of the letter Aleph and how it links to the secret patterns of the 
Torah.

Liber Tenebros
Gottfried Jäger, 1975, Berlin, Hohenheimer. Printed book in German, 
Latin and English. Describes a series of Left-Hand Path rituals of 
invocations of the dark subconscious urges and how they can be 
directed into the physical world. 

The Book of Thoth
Aleister Crowley. A treatise about the symbolism and power of the 
Tarot. 


