The Brotherhood of Bertrando
----------------------------

This is a small group of mages devoted to the protection of
mankind. They see themselves as a kind of magickal police,
ruthlessly destroying any mage threatening mankind. They are
well organized, trained and fanatic. What makes them even
more frightening is that the seem to believe in their cause,
and have not allowed themselves to be corrupted by greed or
lust for power.

The Brotherhood of Bertrando was founded during the middle
ages in Europe, as an response to the fact that many mages
experimented with diabolism or other dangerous activities.
The founder, only known as Bertrando, seems to have been an
influential mage in the Order of Hermes. At first, it was
just a kind of secret, unofficial police which in secret
investigated rumors of diabolism or the abuse of magick. If
they found the suspect guilty, they often turned him or her
over to the Quaesitors, the Inquisition or the mundane
authorities. But during the late middle ages, the group
became more and more extreme. They saw how darkness spread
everywhere, how pestilence and famine erupted and the number
of mages involved in it constantly grew. They felt that they
had to fight the evil harder, and instead of just tracking
down offenders they also punished them, most often by death.
The name of the Dark Lightning became feared among mages of
all traditions.

When the lesser order of Hermes dissolved, partially because
of the widespread attacks from the Inquisition and the
Brotherhood, partially because of internal chaos, many of
the mages from House of Quaesitor joined the Brotherhood. It
became a secret army, spread across Europe. During the years
that followed, the organization tracked down many mages and
killed them, often for minor offenses. Slowly, the attacks
ceased as the mages learned to hide themselves or perhaps
because they had become very few.  The Brotherhood also
dwindled, yet again becoming a small organization.

Today it still exists, and yet again seek to destroy all
abusers of the powers of magick. It ruthlessly kills
marauders, nephendi, rouges and any tradition-mage who they
feel misuse their powers.  Their relation to the Technocracy
is a bit strange. Since their idea of magick is fairly
medieval, they tend to regard most technomancers as
non-mages, and only attack the Technocracy if they find out
that it has used something that is clearly magick in an
unsuitable manner. They regard themselves as the judges over
individual mages, not whole organizations like the
Technocracy. The Technocracy, on the other hand, regards
them as allies against the Marauders and Nephendi, and
tolerate them as long as they do not turn against them.

The Brotherhood today is small, just one or two cabals of
mages organized into small teams. The members are all
formally equal, but each team is led by a Veteran, generally
the most experienced member. There is also an informal
ranking system, depending on experience, power, dedication
and how long the mage have been member. Prospective members
are invited to join, and subjected to a series of grueling
tests to test the members loyalty, magickal experience and
willingness to ruthlessly destroy evil magick.

Their ideology is simple: they must guard mankind from all
kinds of misuse of magick. "Misuse of magick" is defined by
the Brotherhood and quite flexible. To use magick for
personal gain is forbidden, as is manipulating or
controlling somebody else, hurting or killing people with
magick and of course any magick dealing with evil (or any)
spirits. Of course all magick used to commit crimes of
mundane nature are forbidden. They also punish crimes
against the old laws of the lesser order of Hermes, like
scrying on other mages or killing another mage. The
punishments they give are strongly medieval, and generally
quite harsh. Minor offenses, like using magick in gambling
or for theft is punished by mutilation. More severe crimes,
like demonology, is punished by burning at the stake (if
possible).

The Brotherhood have no strict rules, but generally tend to
fall back on the old judgements in the Codices. Each Codex
is an old journal containing the details of the cases
against their enemies and the punishments. Today the
collected Codices number 15 large volumes.  All cabals of
the Brotherhood are required to keep copies of the Codices,
and enter their actions into them. They are often quite
gruesome reading, but also important sources of information
about both the organization and their victims. That is why
the Brotherhood carefully guard their Codices, and will
ruthlessly hunt down anybody with a copy. However, there are
a few copies which have been lost (especially after the
middle ages, when the membership of the Brotherhood began to
dwindle).

The members are mostly recruited from the Celestial Chorus,
Order of Hermes, the Trenchcoaters and rarely the Akashic
Brotherhood.  Most members keep their loyalties to the
Brotherhood secret, and often have prominent positions
inside their own Traditions. Their main enemies, besides the
obvious Marauders and Nephendi, are the Euthanatos, Verbena,
Orphans and some groups in the Order of Hermes, who have
been hunted by the group for a long time.  However, not many
mages today know about the organizations existence, and most
thinks it is a thing of the past. The Brotherhood do not
advertise themselves either, and tend to avoid leaving any
trace.

Its methods are a mixture between magick and detective work,
and when they attack a wrongdoer, they often use mundane
methods. They have found that most mages are quite well
prepared against magickal or supernatural attacks, but can
be easily brought down using a bit of thought, planning and
expertise. When they are done with the criminal, they often
arrange things to look like an accident or a mundane crime.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg                                      Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y


