Brotherhood of the Mystical Work

This group is devoted to the study and pursuit of Ascension. Its 
members seek out anything that can give a clue to the nature of 
true Ascension, and spend much time seeking it themselves. They 
share their wisdom with each other and anybody who asks. 

The members are mostly from the Akashic Brotherhood, Celestial 
Chorus and Order of Hermes, but its open for all traditional mages 
who sincerely seeks knowledge about Ascension. Most of the 
members have a scholarly or mystical bent, and most are Masters 
in at least one sphere. There is no formal membership, students 
who show promise and devotion are simply thought of as members 
when they have established themselves well enough. 

The Brotherhood lacks any central organisation, and is divided into 
small groups around respected mages, not unlike the antique 
philosophical schools. The mentors discuss the philosophy and lore 
of Ascension with their circles of students, sometimes with a clear 
teacher-student relationship, sometimes as a free discussion group. 
Joining and leaving such groups are voluntarily, although 
sometimes an mentor asks somebody to join or try to make 
disruptive students leave. Most of the mentors reside at well 
established chantries, especially centres of education (like Order of 
the Burning Light, which is closely allied to the Brotherhood. 
Abelard himself is a member). Students sometimes travel to other 
chantries to learn from their masters, or to try to apply their 
knowledge. 

The groups meet on a larger scale at irregular intervals to discuss 
what they have learned. These convocations are generally called by 
the most respected mentors, and are held at the chantry of the 
mentor. These deep philosophical discussions can become extremely 
complex and occasionally even rather heated. However, most 
members frown upon such displays of childishness, and prefer 
quiet and reasonable discussions.

The Brotherhood is very involved in philosophical and mystical 
pursuit, and keep an eye on all kinds of things, ranging from the 
theories of obscure sociologists to the latest discoveries of the 
Masters. Regarding philosophy, cosmology and other arcane arts the 
Brotherhood is second to only the Oracles in amassed wisdom. 
Unfortunately its not always easy to find when it is needed, since 
most of the wisdom is transmitted orally or in the libraries of the 
mentors. 

Many members work outside the chantries, some living solitary 
lives of meditation, others as observers or researchers of different 
things. Most have a mystical bent, sometimes making them rather 
impractical, but it is often made up by their wisdom and 
knowledge. Having a visiting member is often an honour for a 
chantry, and they are generally treated very well by most 
traditions. Only the newest or most anarchic groups ignore the 
Brotherhood.

The Brotherhood is very well respected. Most members have 
already mastered much magick, and have turned to deeper things. 
That have given it an overabundance of older, experienced mages 
with an mystical bent. Especially the Celestial Chorus and Order of 
Hermes revere them greatly, and gladly support the Brotherhoods 
activities. 

However, the prestige of the Brotherhood has also given it a 
political side. Its members generally supports forces in the 
traditions which promote peace, stability and conservatism. Since it 
is so well respected, its influence is rather profound. Some 
opponents have pointed out that the Brotherhoods well-meaning 
meddling weakens the traditions further against the Technocracy. 

