From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Mon Jul 19 16:13:01 1996
Status: RO
X-Status: A
Received: from drayma.hh.se (drayma.hh.se [194.47.1.24])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id QAA21046 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Fri, 19 Jul 1996 16:13:00 +0200
Received: from xi.hh.se (xi.hh.se [194.47.5.114]) by drayma.hh.se (8.7/8.7) with ESMTP id QAA18697 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>; Fri, 19 Jul 1996 16:10:44 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Mathias Bengtsson <bas95mbe@mh1.hh.se>
Received: (from bas95mbe@localhost) by xi.hh.se (8.7/8.7) id QAA05440 for nv91-asa@nada.kth.se; Fri, 19 Jul 1996 16:12:58 +0200 (MET DST)
Date: Fri, 19 Jul 1996 16:12:58 +0200 (MET DST)
Message-Id: <199607191412.QAA05440@xi.hh.se>
To: nv91-asa@nada.kth.se
Subject: magick bullets
X-Sun-Charset: US-ASCII

My Magick Bullets
By Professor Mordecai
Son Of Ether
Cabal of B.A.D (Big Apple Desperados)

Correspondence 4 -the everlasting bullet.
        Before a fight you start making copies of your only bullet, when the
        scene is over these extra bullets and casings disappear (which may
        turn this effect vulgar) unless combined with Matter 4 and Prime 2.

Correspondence 5 Matter 4 -Cad Cam bullet.
        Imagine a .22 with the stopping power of a .50AE, yes, could be vulgar.

Correspondence 5 -Limitless ammo.
        In theory, a clip with lot of bullets. Could be vulgar if containing
        more than twice the usual amount, unless you pretend to put in a new
        clip now and then. (I remember I let Kim Vachon of BoC have one of
        these in a chronicle I ran.)

Entropy 3 -the perfect bullet.
        By taking away all imperfections of a bullet you can make it absolutely
        flawless. Each success means one bullet with the ability to remove one
        botch as if having the merit: charmed existance. (vampire)

Matter 2
        With this you can make brass casings or led bullets or turn it into
        another material (silver or perhaps cold iron)
        Still need to actually make the bullet, though.

Matter 3 -improve bullet
        Can make a bullet into hollow point or armorpiercing, lets you load
        .38specials into a 9mm Glock.

Matter 4 -manufacturize bullet
        Can now create bullets of any kind. One per success, also grenades and
        rockets, although these might demand 2-3 successes a piece.
        Also bullet that penetrates any non-living material.

Matter 5 -exotic bullets.
        Primium bullets, bullets of true gold, Moonsilver...anything.

Mind 5
        Lets you create sentient bullets. Cool, but not the kind of "smart"
        bullet you wanted.

Prime 2 -enchant bullet.
        By priming bullets with Quintessence they now do aggravated damage, or
        get the ability to wound non-materialized spirits.

Prime 3 -Minor bullet Talisman.
        For the cost of 5 Quintessence you can get a bullet with a special
        ability depending on which sphere you combine it with.

        Correspondence 4 -Oswalds bullet.
        This is a bullet that lets you fire your gun in New York and hit someone
        in a streetcorner in Paris.

        Correspondence 4 -"shotgun"
        When fired, the bullet co-locates and hit the target several times,
        consider this coincidential (ever heard of Duplex or Triplex Ammo?)

        Entropy 1 - Bullet in the head
        lower the damage difficulty of the bullet with one per success, (no
        lower then 3)

        Entropy 3 -anti-armor bullet
        By using the effect erode matter the bullet negates one die of armor
        the target has per success (no effect on Stamina or Fortitude.)

        Entropy 2 or
        Time 2 or
        Forces 2 -seekers V. 1.1
        Raise the difficulty of any dodge by one per success

        Entropy 2 or
        Time 2 or
        Forces 2 -seekers V. 1.2
        Lower the difficulty to hit with one per success

        Forces 2 -Heavy duty ammo
        Add number of successes on the Magickal roll to the guns damage rating,
        But add one to the difficulty of the shot.

        Forces 3 -Improved Heavy duty ammo
        As above, but do not add one to the difficulty to the shot.

        Forces 3 -Fire bullets
        Good against vampire as it provides aggravated unsoakable (except with
        Fortitude) damage

        Forces 3 -Explosix
        After soaking the initial damage from the bullet the targets gets
        damaged anew as it explodes, on this second roll for soak, do not add
        any armor the target has, just plain Stamina (+Fortitude).

        Forces 5 -"Dirty Harry" loads
        Multiply the damage rating of the gun with The number of successes on
        the magickal roll. Oh, and yeah, can you say VULGAR???

        Forces 5 -Summers Ricochet
        After hitting its initial target the bullet continues with undiminished
        power and hits up to successes number of extra targets, considered
        coincidential if shot from a fully automatic gun while spraying.

        Life 1 -recognizer (also Mind 1 or Matter 1)
        Add any effect previously mentioned, but it only works against a certain
        Kind of target. Like Creatures (Vampires, Werewolves), people with a
        certain faith (I'm not going to go into on this one) or a specific
        person (Samuel Haight)
        A good way to avoid Accidents (so you dont kill your cabal members by
        mistake)

        Life 3 -"poison" bullets
        These bullets continue to do damage even afterwards, roll Stamina
        difficulty 8 to avoid taking one health level of damage. Goes on for
        Successes number of turns.

        Life 3 -healing bullets
        These bullets dont hurt you, instead they heal you, weird. (just make
        sure you load the correct bullet.
        "We had him, he was almost dead, but now he's standing up"
        You "Uh-oh")

        Mind 2 -Pain bullets
        Add successes to the victims wound status, below Inc doesnt kill him,
        but puts him in a coma for the duration. These pains could be overcome
        by spending a willpower.

        Mind 3 -Psycho bullets
        The victim hit by one of these starts killing his friends or simply
        gives up, (hey, he's wounded, right?) this effect could be overcome
        by spending a willpower.

        Prime 2 -anti magick bullets
        Roll Prime difficulty 8 while crafting the bullet and spend successes
        number of extra Quintessence, any mage hit by and wounded by these
        bullets suffer from the rules of Anti-magick (Mage t:A 2ed) until she
        get them out or counters this effect (must spend willpower)

        Prime 3 -Drainers
        Any target hit by one of these bullets also lose a number of Quint-
        essence equal to the number of successes got while crafting it.

        Prime 4 -Dissolvers
        The bullets dont dissolve, but any non-living material does. It takes
        One additional Health level /success as its pattern dissolves into
        free Quintessence, This cannot be soaked. (also known as acid bullets)

        Prime 5 -Advanced Dissolvers
        As prime 4 effect, but does now affect living patterns.

        Time 3 -"tranquilizers"
        Any target hit gets slowed down.

        Time 4 -Stasis bullets
        Target hit gets stopped in place for duration

        Prime 3 -Drainers
        Any target hit by one of these bullets also lose a number of Quint-
        essence equal to the number of successes got while crafting it.

        Prime 4 -Dissolvers
        The bullets dont dissolve, but any non-living material does. It takes
        One additional Health level /success as its pattern dissolves into
        free Quintessence, This cannot be soaked. (also known as acid bullets)

        Prime 5 -Advanced Dissolvers
        As prime 4 effect, but does now affect living patterns.

        Time 3 -"tranquilizers"
        Any target hit gets slowed down.

        Time 4 -Stasis bullets
        Target hit gets stopped in place for duration

Spirit 2 -create talen
        As per the talen creation rules of Werewolf, the apocalypse.

Spirit 3 -Spirit bullet
        A bullet that can fire into umbra and hit spirits there (remember,
        non-materialized spirits gets no soak unless they got Armor charm)

Spirit 5 -Gilgul bullet
        No. Just forget this one.

