The Cake of Evil
----------------

The players were infiltrating the a House-Owners Association in
Stocksund, a rather wealthy and conservative suburb (they had
to protect a local node). They needed a house. After some help
from a rather weird stranger (who may be a Tremere, Angel or
Demon. Nobody knows...) they got the chance to buy a house.
Where to get the money? 

Dr Sallai went home to his temple, and summoned Shax, a
Marquise Demon from the Lesser Key of Solomon. It manifested as
a stockdove, talking with a hoarse voice (like a bad film Mafia
boss). 

-Welcome, O great marquise! 

- Why did you call me? 

- I want you to steal two million crowns from the Kings
Treasury, as described in Clavicula Solomonis! 

- So? And what will you give me in return? (slight pause)

- I will give you the house I will buy with the money after my
friends have moved out. 

- Not enough! ...I demand something more... I will lay an egg,
and you will give it to a person to eat. 

- In that case swear not to harm the young man and his mistress
the black woman who uses dead things as if they were alive! 

- I swear on everything unholy! Now open the Triangle and let
me out! 

- The Unholy does not respect oaths! Swear on an angel! 

(very agitated) - I will *never* swear on any accursed angel! 

- In that case, swear on your Lord, Azazel. 

- Yes, I swear on my Lord Azazel, Demon of the Scapegoat and of
the Wasteland, to bring you two million crowns in exchange for
the deed to the house and you giving somebody the egg to eat,
and I will not harm the man and woman as long as they live in
the house. Now free me! 

- Good. (raising his arms) Go away and steal the money from the
King! 

The stockdove laid an egg, jumped up in the air, flew three
turns widdershins and disappeared. The mage carefully laid the
egg, surrounded by candles and crosses in the fridge. Next
morning a computer error deposited two million crowns on Dr
Sallais account... 

Everything worked well, but Dr Sallai began to realize his
problem. He didn't want to give anybody the egg, and Shax
followed him discreetly. He got one idea: the deal didn't say
anything about what *kind* of person got the egg. Maybe a demon
would do? So he summoned Leraije, reputedly the enemy of Shax.
Leraije manifested as a hunter clad in green, with bow and
quiver. 

- Welcome, O great marquise! 

- Why dids't thou call me? 

- Are you an enemy of the great marquise Shax? 

- That are the rumors, yes. 

- He has given me this egg, containing his power. I give it to
you (holds forth the egg. The demon doesn't take it). 

- No, I cannot take it. It belongs to Shax, and if I took it it
would be an affront to Azazel. Do you want me to insult the
Demon of the Wasteland, mortal? 

- No, of course not. But I can give it to any other being? 

- Only humans would be stupid enough to accept it. 

- Will not the little demons or the gnomes take it? 

- They see the power of Shax inside. No, you must give it to a
human...  but I can help you. If you tell me the name of the
person who eats the egg, I can intervene. I would be very
grateful to do so. 

- Agreed, great marquise. Now be begone! 

Dr Sallai thought about it. The situation was hardly better
now, but at least he had two opposite demons involved. After a
bit of thinking he decided to make the egg a bit easier to fool
somebody into eating. He, and his son, prepared a cake out of
the egg using consecrated kitchen implements in the circle. The
final result was a completely normal cake... physically
speaking. He placed it inside a protective circle inside the
fridge. 

After a week, he had still not found anybody evil or corrupted
enough to deserve the cake. He had begun realizing that he
really didn't want to inflict it on *anyone*, after doing a bit
more research on demonic eggs and their internal quarrels. And
he also realized he was horribly tied up in the situation. To
make matters worse, the rest of the cabal found out about it.
The Chorist felt something, and walked up to the fridge (where
the rest of the food was putrefying) "Dr Sallai, why are you
trying to protect yourself from this cake? Are you dieting?"
"That cake is EVIL!".  Naturally, the inhabitants of the house
wasn't thrilled to know that a demon owned an option on it, and
that the deal didn't include anybody else, like their unborn
child... 

After a while, the cabal managed to secure the node. Dr Sallai
realized that they didn't need the house, rushed home dragging
the Chorist with him (just in case) and called up Shax. Shax
appeared

- Why haven't you given the cake to somebody yet? Nearly half a
moon have gone by since we made the deal! 

- O infernal spirit, that deal was evil and sinful! 

- Of course, and that was why you made it in the first place! 

- I regret it, and pray to God that He will forgive me for my
foolishness! (clasps hands)

- Hypocrite! You want to break our deal! 

- Yes, return the money to its rightful owner, our beloved
King! (places a crown on the cake)

- Oathbreaker! *I* didn't break this pact, but *you*! Know that
demons keep their word better than you so-called-Christians... 

- I banish you in the name of the Lord Yud-He-Vau-He!
(sprinkles holy water in a cross on the demon, who desperately
flies around. Suddenly the dove-body collapses dead. The cake
starts to mold)

Meanwhile, the inhabitants of the house was sleeping... until
suddenly every piece of glass in the house explodes, showering
with shards. The kitchen explodes, and the statues in the
garden fall down. They had to spend the rest of the night with the
Fire Department... Well, easy come, easy go... 







