From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Fri Dec 19 16:52:56 1995
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Path: news.kth.se!newsfeed.sunet.se!news01.sunet.se!sunic!mn6.swip.net!plug.news.pipex.net!pipex!dish.news.pipex.net!pipex!tank.news.pipex.net!pipex!usenet.eel.ufl.edu!newsfeed.internetmci.com!in1.uu.net!news3.digex.net!digex.net!not-for-mail
From: mfterman@access5.digex.net (Martin Terman)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller
Subject: Celestial Chorus Redux
Date: 19 Dec 1995 16:52:56 -0500
Organization: Express Access Online Communications USA: 800-969-9090
Lines: 159
Message-ID: <4b7c7o$8le@access5.digex.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: access5.digex.net

My take on the Celestial Chorus:

The Celestial Chorus in Theory
==============================
There is the One, which is refered to under many names in many 
religions. To the Christians its God, to the Buddists its 
Nirvana or Enlightenment, and the "white light" of a whole slew 
of different sects. The ultimate spirital state. Essentially 
the One is inifinite, but down here it manifests through 
various spiritual concepts, intellectual concepts, and the 
material world.

All religions are true, and all religions are false, according 
to the Celestial Chorus credo. Is there Shiva? Depends on your 
perspective. To a Celestial Chorus memeber, Shiva is but a mask 
for the aspect of destruction that is part of the One. All 
gods, goddesses and so forth are merely masks we place between 
ourselves and the One. We create the masks out of ignorance.

Does Shiva exist? Well, enough belief in the mask and the mask 
takes on power, sitting between the One and ourselves. Many 
Celestial Chorus members think that the Umbrood sprang into 
existance in this way. Others feel that the Umbrood are beings 
who have taken various spiritual paths to the One along 
specific routes, embracing certain concepts.

To the Celestial Chorus member, worshipping the gods is a good 
first step. Understanding the gods, one grows closer to the One 
that lies behind all the gods. The more worldly and less 
spirital masks are easier to approach and deal with. While a 
Catholic could pray to God for aid, they might as often pray to 
Mary or to a specific Saint, even though they rank well below 
God but because they are more approachable.

Progression in the Celestial Chorus comes from stripping away 
the masks. One comes to a deeper understanding of the spiritual 
forces, and removes the more worldly masks in favor of the more 
enlightened ones. Ascention occurs when the masks are removed 
and the One is directly viewed. The masks are placed there by 
the observer, so the observer removes them in the course of 
reaching enlightenment.

That's the basic unifying creedo of the Celestial Chorus, in my 
take on it. All gods are merely masks between us and the One. 
They partake of the One, for the One's power shines down 
through them. The more enlightened the perception of the deity, 
the thinner the mask (or its closer to the One) and the more 
power shines through.

The paradigm of the Celestial Chorus member is that the power 
of the One shines through them. By becoming more and more 
enlightened, they establish a stronger connection to the One 
and so the more the power is able to flow from the One through 
them. Its not so much a distortion of reality as flowing of 
energies, concepts and forces from the One, which is beyond all 
the limitations of Statick Reality, into the world.

Those in the Celestial Chorus who study the phenomena of True 
Faith believe this is how mortals who have this power are able 
to affect the world. They have instinctive or intuitive 
connections to the One in one form or another (which is why one 
is able to have True Faith in many religions) and are able to 
channel the forces of the One into the world. The stronger the 
True Faith, the bigger the connection and the more power that 
can flow through into the world.

The Celestial Chorus labors to build up spiritual faith in the 
One, to forge connections to the One in each and every 
individual. Some feel if enough connections to the One are made 
in the world, then the One will pour into the world and trigger 
a mass Awakening or even Ascention for everyone.

The Celestial Chorus in Practice
================================
Now in the Celestial Chorus, there is a lot of internal 
divisions. Only massively enlightened senior Mages, who have 
burned away most of their connections to most exoteric faiths, 
manage to keep the whole sect together. Often the senior Mages 
force the younger Mages to confront these divisions, trapping 
them inside the divisions until they are able to see past them 
and transcend the problems. Unfortunately, it doesn't always 
work out that well.

One of the divisions in the Celestial Chorus is the debate 
about the role of the material world. There is a strong 
tendency in the majority towards a certain degree of denial of 
the physical world. Some think its unimportant, some think its 
an illusion, others think its a trap designed to keep everyone
distracted and barred from the One.

Others think that the One is everything, and that includes the 
material world. The material world is part of the One and that 
any views of the One that do not incorporate the physical world 
and all the sundry elements of it. Sex is a big point of 
debate. Is celibacy important or harmful? Its been a subject 
for many a long debate. Official policy is that it is a valid 
path, but many feel that its a long and winding road indeed.

Incidentally, this is the big point where the Celestial Chorus, 
a religious faith, differs from the Dreamspeakers and the 
Verbena, also religious faiths. The Dreamspeakers focus of the 
Umbra and the spirit world as the focus. The Celestial Chorus 
thinks the spirit world is closer to the One than the material 
world, but many feel its an even more seductive trap. The 
Verbena, who hail the natural, material world as the end all, 
are stuck in this world and looking away from the One.

To the Celestial Chorus, Gaia is but a mask for the One. A 
particularly potent mask, the focus of the world's belief and 
powers, but only a front behind the true reality. This belief 
hacks off the Verbena and the Dreamspeakers to no small end, 
who feel that Gaia is the sum-all and end-all of reality. The 
Celestial Chorus feels immensely superior for this belief.

Younger Celestial Chorus members are often more entangled with 
the worldly religions they came from and think the trappings of 
those religions are important. To the enlightened Celestial 
Chorus members, the trappings of faith are like the foci they 
use to work True Magick (often they are one and the same). They 
are crutches needed by the less enlightened until they can free 
themselves of them.

But being entangled in worldly faiths, they often end up more 
in rivalries or divisions based on the rivalries and divisions 
of the worldly faiths. There's also a belief that the worldly 
religion they have is a better and surer spiritual path to the 
One, a shorter one to Ascention. Truly enlightened scoff at the 
concept of distance and paths to the One, the road is purely in 
the minds of the people perceiving the road.

But that sort of believe really pits the monotheists versus the 
pantheists. Jewish, Christian and Islamic Chorus members are 
often able to see past the trappings of their individual faiths 
to see how much they have in common with each other. They also 
feel that they are closer to the One because they have a view 
of a single God who can be readily identified with the One. So 
by believing in a single God they are closer to the One than 
the pantheists who have fragemented the One along a whole 
parcel of divinities.

For what its worth, many pantheist Chorus members point out all 
the Saints of the Catholic Church and all the angels and divine 
servents in general of the monotheistic faiths. They also feel 
that the belief of God is something of a cul de sac. Sure, they 
start off closer to the One in many regards, but monotheistic 
Chorus members find it harder to give up the trappings of God 
in favor of the One. That the monotheists argue that there is 
no need to give up the trappings since God is the one provokes 
another round of debate.

But in the end, the belief in some sort of spiritual 
enlightenment, a transcendance from the mundane world, a 
connection to the infinite, binds the Celestial Chorus 
together. All faiths are true, and none of them are.
-- 
    Martin Terman, Therapy and Behavioral Counseling for Troubled Computers. 
 Disclaimer: Sticks and stones may break my bones, but flames are just ignored
email: mfterman@access.digex.com  home page: http://access.digex.net/~mfterman/
"Sig quotes are like bumper stickers, only without the same sense of relevance"


