     CHAMBER OF THORNS
     
     This group was founded in New York in 1790 by a group of patriots that 
     believed that the US Constitution as adopted would result in the 
     eventual failure of "the great experiment of Democracy" due to its 
     implicit "rights" talk.  Though these men believed it necessary to 
     include such in order to convince enough states to pass the 
     unprecedented document, they were sure that society would abuse the 
     priveleges the Constitution granted.  To amend this problem, the group 
     took it upon themselves to "fix" problems as they arose, taking their 
     cue from the infamous Star Chamber in bonnie England.
     
     From the first the secret society kept their numbers small for 
     security's sake.  They also adopted much of the trappings and ritual 
     that they brought with them from their Masonic backgrounds and 
     religious beliefs.  These ceremonial aspects became so obstructive to 
     the groups original purpose that by the mid-1800's the Chamber had 
     ceased to be active in carrying out their purported goals of "fixing" 
     societal problems as they arose, a euphamism for what had really been 
     little more than vigilanteism.
     
     In 1863, Franc-Louie Boudreaux -- an extremely mysterious member of 
     the group (so mysterious in fact, that unlike the others, he ensured 
     that even in the sanctity of the Chamber's rooms his face remained 
     obscured, leaving many to believe that his very name even, was a lie) 
     -- announced to his comrades that they would all die before sunrise!  
     He then added that only half of them were, however, ready.  When his 
     fellow members demanded to know what kind of threat that was, he 
     replied only that it was not threat, but simply the way it would be.  
     The meeting was adjourned and each went back to their wives and 
     children fearful of the enigmatic Frenchman.
     
     The next morning exactly half the men who sat at Msr. Boudreaux's side 
     the night before were reported to have died the night before, all of 
     easily explainable circumstances.  The other half had all been either 
     involved in some accident or been struck by some illness that had 
     almost resulted in their deaths also, but not quite.
     
     When the evening of the next scheduled meeting of the Chamber of 
     Thorns arrived, the men who had survived their brush with death sat 
     silent, eyeing Franc-Louie with horrid awe.  They realized that he was 
     far beyond them in his understanding of death and his power over it.  
     As children before a hero, the men listened dutifully as their new 
     Bearer of Thorns took his seat and laid out the Chamber's new 
     beginning.  No longer would they reveal their identities to even each 
     other, but would instead wear masks -- as Msr. Boudreaux claimed the 
     dead themselves do -- to conceal their true selves.  They would cast 
     away their worldly cares and dedicate themselves to keeping democracy 
     on track by ridding the world of those who would abuse its freedoms.  
     They were patriots, and they would cull the troublesome from the 
     earth.
     
     Today the members remain a complete mystery to each other.  While the 
     Chamber is located in Washington, DC, individual members live 
     throughout the country, carrying out their sacred duties wherever 
     necessary.  Only Disciples may actually attend the formal meetings, 
     though the Masters wield the power of veto on any of the Chamber's 
     decisions.  The current Bearer of Thorns' identity is unknown, but 
     some believe that he is the very same Franc-Louie Boudreaux that 
     founded the group in its present incarnation.  Some even whisper that 
     he is actually a mage possessed by a powerful wraith, with his true 
     intentions unknown.  Others suggest that it is not a wraith at all, 
     but rather a wraith's Shadow!!
     
     The members act as assassins, most often framing someone else for 
     their actions.  Most are upstanding citizens holding respectable jobs 
     -- lawyers, judges, doctors, etc.  Each acts independantly, choosing 
     to "fix" whatever "problem" they perceive.  At the bi-monthly meetings 
     in Washington, specific "larger" problems are discussed and strategies 
     on how to deal with them are voted on.  Then, the Bearer of Thorns 
     will announce who shall be offered "the Crown of Thorns" (ie. the gift 
     of death) and any member who wishes may then eradicate the 
     individuals.  Only one thing is required, and that is the individuals 
     must be dead before the next meeting is convened.
     
     In general, these mages do not think of themselves as "magickal".  
     They believe that their understanding of Justice and the role Death 
     plays in it is simply far greater than that of ordinary folk.  They do 
     not perform murder, but rather "patriotic necessity".
     
     Regarding their "foci", their dancing is simply very precise somatic 
     movements of the arms while tracing certain patterns with their feet.  
     They usually try to acquire bone fragments of great patriots, while 
     their weapons can be anything useful.  Their dolls are very lifelike 
     effigies, likenesses which they will adorn with a small circlet of 
     thorns in order to affect.
     
     Most members have Patterned or Dynamically essencial Avatars, as they 
     concentrate on rectifying Democracy's flaws.
     
     
     Comments?  It's just an interesting idea for a type of Euthantos mage, 
     but by no means does it encompass all their different philosophies.
     
     
     Aurelius, Thinkin' 'bout Death!
