Chaos Magick Rotes:

By John Everett Till
WNDAORCUS@aol.com

The purpose of these rotes is to allow the mage to conjure illusions or
summon entities from a variety of experiences/cultural sources, including pop
cultural media. Use of these rotes requires Dream (to tap into the universal
unconscious) or a concentration (4 or more points) in Contemporary Philosophy
(e.g., Baudrillard, Derrida, Foucault, Lacan, etc.) or a related academic
field like Cultural Studies.

Memories that Smell Like Gasoline (Mind 2): The caster concentrates on the
image/smell/sound/texture (etc.) of something, and then shares the illusion
that sensation with all present. Note that the caster conjures a single
sensory allusion.  Depending on the illusion, this may be very disconcerting
to the subject. 

For example, by concentrating one's recall on the smell of gasoline, it is
possible to conjure this smell as a collective illusion. One could also
conjure the illusion of a clear fluid that looks like gasoline by using the
smell as a focus. The difficulty of this type of illusion is lowered when a
material representation (such as the photo of a burning flag) or sample of
the item (e.g., a real-life gasoline-soaked rag) is available. 

Create Floating Signifier (Entropy 2, Mind 2): Creates an analogous effect to
that of Memories/Gasoline, but the specific illusion is attached to an
unrelated referent. "Jesus was way cool." If he wanted too, he could make Tic
Tacs taste like gasoline, or sugar snort like cocaine. The difficulty of this
action is lowered when the caster is presently experiencing synesthesia.

Create Deconstruction Flake I (Mind 3, Spirit 2): The caster creates a
multisensory illusion of a single object or entity drawn from the collective
unconscious or popular culture (i.e., the Deep Umbra). The difficulty of this
type of illusion is lowered when a material representation or sample of the
item is available. For example, a plastic Godzilla toy would be a quite
useful focus for conjuring an illusion of Godzilla.

Create Deconstruction Flake II (Correspondence 1, Mind 4, Spirit 2): The
caster creates a landscape or immediate scene involving a complex illusion
drawn from the universal unconscious or pop culture (e.g., the illusion of
Godzilla trashing the surrounding city blocks). The difficulty for this type
of illusion is lowered when the caster has a representation of the scene
being conjured (e.g., a picture postcard of the area, with a cut out picture
of Godzilla pasted on) , or has used the Art of Memory (Mind 2,
Correspondence 1) to recall a similar scene (e.g., the caster watched
Godzilla trash Tokyo last night on video).

Create Deconstruction Flake III (Forces N, Life N, Matter N, Prime 2, Spirit
2-4): The caster summons a simulacrum from the Near or High Umbra. The
simulacrum will generally act in a manner consistent with its cultural
referent (e.g., Godzilla once summoned starts to trash the city). However, if
the mage has accumulated paradox, the behavior of the simulacrum may be
unpredictable (e.g., Godzilla holds up a box of Kellog's Frosted Flakes and
shouts "They'rrre Grrreat!" just like Tony the Tiger).


The Deconstructive Turn (Entropy 5, Mind 4): A powerful form of Chaos Magick
in which the mage disrupts the Work of a Technocracy or Hermetic mage.
Essentially, the caster causes the target's thought processes to fragment.
Metaphors used in casting become mixed, muddled, or unclear. The Art of
Memory is unhinged or disrupted. Magic based on formal logic is impeded. The
difficulty for this action is lowered when the caster has used the Art of
Memory to recall a long passage of gibberish from a postmodern critical text.
 


"Jesus Was Way Cool" is a song by King Missile.


