From owner-wod-l@netcom.com  Fri Jul 19 06:35:26 1996
Received: from mail.netcom.com (root@mail.netcom.com [192.100.81.99])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id GAA06002 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Fri, 19 Jul 1996 06:35:23 +0200
Received: (from daemon@localhost) by mail.netcom.com (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id NAA04851; Wed, 17 Jul 1996 13:49:11 -0700
Received: from atc.boeing.com (atc.boeing.com [130.42.28.80]) by mail (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id NAA04706; Wed, 17 Jul 1996 13:48:32 -0700
Received: by atc.boeing.com (5.65/splinter.boeing.com)
	id AA12554; Wed, 17 Jul 1996 11:45:18 -0700
Received: from runt.ca.boeing.com by splinter.boeing.com with ESMTP
	(1.37.109.16/16.2) id AA217729125; Wed, 17 Jul 1996 11:45:25 -0700
Received: by runt.ca.boeing.com (940816.SGI.8.6.9/931108.SGI.ANONFTP)
	for wod-l@netcom.com id LAA05875; Wed, 17 Jul 1996 11:44:40 -0700
From: "Corwyn J. Alambar" <cja8174@runt.ca.boeing.com>
Message-Id: <9607171144.ZM5873@runt.ca.boeing.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Jul 1996 11:44:38 -0700
X-Mailer: Z-Mail (3.2.0 26oct94 MediaMail)
To: wod-l@netcom.com
Subject: The Club Awake (Fiction)
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Sender: owner-wod-l@netcom.com
Precedence: list
Reply-To: wod-l@netcom.com
Status: RO
X-Status: 

(Author's note:  The setting for this is the Northern California by Night I
have been working on off and on for the last 8 months or so.  It's a brief
tale about... well, go ahead and read it.  I hope you enjoy!)

****

The bouncer scowled at Alex, peering through the dim evening light at the
forged ID.  After a moment, he handed it back to Alex, and gruffly motioned
him by.  As he passed, he thought for sure he heard the guard mutter
something about shoddy work.

He passed through a small corridor, done up with an exquisite facade to look
like a slightly crumbled concrete tunnel, complete with the munitions locker
nee coat check.  He could feel the thrumming of the music above and before
him, his very bones vibrating to sounds he could feel, but not hear.

The corridor took a sudden turn, ending in a pair of double-hinged doors,
covered in mock soot and iron, like a bunker blast door.  But that was the
schtick here, for the Digital Raven Saratoga.  It was effective - without the
sound of music coming from beyond, he could very easilly have been walking
into a bombed out bunker in some Third World country.

That only partially changed as he crossed the threshhold, pushing the "blast
doors" open, suddenly awash in sounds.  From here, there was a stairway and
glass elevator, done to look like a bombed out concrete support, up to the
upper levels of dance floor and restaurant/cafe, and two passages down and to
the right and left gave him a glimpse of the mass of people on the floor,
dancing and writhing to powerful music.  He decided he should just hang
around one of the two dance floors downstairs, and took a left turn into an
area ominously labelled "Bunker 1".

And a bunker it was.  A vaulted, crumbled-looking conrete ceiling opened up
to a faux night sky, the full moon shining down through fronds of rainforest
trees.  Creepers climbed the walls, giving the entire area a look of the
overgrown, the intensely natural subsuming the fortress of civilization.  A
light, slightly tangy mist hung in the air, scented slightly of orchids and
dust, completing the illusion of a jungle hideaway.

The dance floor itself was crowded, moving in a twisting sea of flesh and
dark clothing, the music itself evocative of the deep beat of tribal drums
and pipes, brought through time by the filter of the electric guitar and the
distorted synthesizer.  It was all surreal, the way the half-light played
over the dancers, the music almsot palpable as the thick mist that had
settled over the dancers.

Alex took a deep breath, and relaxed, feeling the music almost flow into him.
 It was easy to sink deply into the illusion, feeling his limbs dance and
move of their own accord, swaying to the secret rhythms that lay under the
music.  He imagined himself part of a post-Apocalyptic tribe, dancing a rite
of pleasure and primal passion in the bombed out husk of what had come
before.  THey were all primitives, worshipping the unknown gods who had left
this shrine.

He found that, upon opening his eyes, the image did not change, nor did it
shift.  SOme of the outfits were evocative of the primitive, the tribal,
while others were torn and faded combat fatigues, as though past met present
through a dark and unknown future, one of which he was a part.  Small stands,
set on crumbled supports and twisted steel girders, were small altars to
those who conquered them, dancing the sensual rhythms of time, the body, and
the soul.

Alex found himself drawn towards a young woman, long black hair reaching down
near her waist, her motions almsot erotic, but also deeper, arousing passions
much further than simply those of the flesh.  He found himself drawn into her
dance, meeting her motions, as the two became one became two.

He scented the air, now rife with the green scent of a jungle after a fresh
rain, and felt a growling stirring inside him.  He imagined himself a wolf, a
hunter from the hills and mountanis beyond, come down here to mingle with
predator and prey.  And he danced with the Primal Serpent, Lilith, Medea,
Circe, Tiamat, Athena - her motions aroused his mind, his body, and his soul.
 And he was the newcomer, the interloper, the stranger in an even stranger
land.

The music began to subtlely shift, taking on a more rapid, urgent pace, and
he found himself wanting to embrace this creature of the night, to fel her
against him...  Feelings seemed natural, those of possession, of dominance,
of the thrill of the hunt.  He growled again, this time an audible noise, and
closed to her, stalking the maiden who knew all the secrets, who would reveal
them to him once he proved he was the alpha, the dominant wolf, the master of
the pack.

The music sped up again, this time flowing through them both, their dance the
motion of hunter and hunted, the chase, predator against predator, they wove
their way about the floor.  Her hands were the strike of the jaws of his
prey, her body a weapon as he stirred, facing her, eventually backing her
towards one of the many corners of the bunker.

She suddenly turned to face him, her fangs and glowering eyes no longer an
illusion in his mind.  She snarled, and the music reached a fevered pitch.
 Panic suddenly surged in to replace passion, but the beast kept hold of him
from within.  He could feel his body, that of the wolf, but could not face
down this true wolf within himself.  His mind screamed to run, his body
screamed to mate, his soul screamed for freedom...

Synthetic thunder crashed over the entire club, masking his howl of anguish
and triumph as he felt the bounds of his soul break, giving him the
unfettered vision he had heard of but never truly felt.  He could feel and
see the entire universe at once, the wolf spirit rising within hi, becoming a
part of his mind and soul, yet still remaining human, with a perspective as
though from a mountaintop, overlooking a vast plain where he had only moments
before stood.

He turned to the strange woman, his Serpent of the Garden, his Isis, his
Astarte, and looked deep into her eyes, meeting something feral there... He
looked deeper, somehow seeing her mind, hearing her thoughts, the rage, the
aggression, the anger and the passion...  He felt the jungle aorund him, real
and not real, and saw the truth and the lies to reality...  He felt the
woman's desire, pulled her to his chest, and kissed her for a seeming
eternity...  THe kiss lingered, hot and bittersweet, and finally ended.

Alex threw back his head and laughed at the world, knowing for once the
truth.

*****

Okay, a bit heavyhanded, but just a take on one man's awakening...  Tell me
whatcha think.  :)

-Corey

-- 
It is even true of certain ideas, as of certain predatory species, that
they can subsist only as long as the species of idea on which they prey
subsists in sufficient number.
     - Bertrand De Jouvenel, _The Art of Conjecture_

