From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Sat Nov 29 16:31:10 1995
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from comp.uark.edu (sbabb@comp.uark.edu [130.184.253.197])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id QAA20333 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Wed, 29 Nov 1995 16:31:05 +0100
Received: (from sbabb@localhost) by comp.uark.edu (8.7.1/8.7.1) id JAA19636; Wed, 29 Nov 1995 09:30:55 -0600 (CST)
Date: Wed, 29 Nov 1995 09:30:52 -0600 (CST)
From: "D.J. (aka GICOSAD)" <sbabb@comp.uark.edu>
To: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
cc: CONSTANTINE THOMAS <c.thomas1@lancaster.ac.uk>
Subject: Virtual Codes 2.2
Message-ID: <Pine.SOL.3.91.951128152052.21099B-100000@comp>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                Virtuals
                                ~~~~~~~~
    In labeling Virtuals, the Continuum tries to use a standardized 
classification system - the Virtual Profile - for ease of recording 
basic features. Virtuals are labeled regularly labeled as below, but 
as new Virtuals are discovered the system is revised and updated to 
better conform with increases in the knowledge of the Continuum.

   The Continuum classes Virtuals as follows:

    Common Name
    Energy [Quint] Rating
    Human Factor
    Magick Factor
    Tech Factor
    Environmental Factor
    Control Factor
    Entity Factor
    Danger Factor
    Temporal Proximity
    Unique (ID) Code
    Common Name
                            
                            CODING EXPLANATIONS
                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-----------------------------------------
    Common Name: This is the name by which the Continuum commonly 
refers to the Virtual. Occasionally the name by which its 
inhabitants refer to it is used. In the Classification Scheme, it 
is placed either before or after the Profile itself, depending on 
the preferences of individual agents.


-----------------------------------------
    Energy [Quintessence] Rating
    
    Perhaps one of the most important codes for a Virtual, this 
indicates the strength of the Virtual's existence. Since Virtuals 
are invariably weaker copies of Main Corridor, they contain less 
inherent Energy [the Continuum term for Quintessence] than MC. The 
Energy Rating indicates how many points of Virtual Quintessence are 
equivalent to one point of MC Quintessence. Many Virtuals are have a 
Quint Rating of 2 - ie. two Virtual Quint points are equivalent to 
one MC Quint Point. The most potent Virtuals have a Quint Rating 
of 1, which means that one Virtual Quint point has the same strength 
as on from MC.
    The Energy Rating of the Virtual determines how vulnerable it is 
to attack by the Darkness - weaker Virtuals may be more unstable... 
    [Editor's note: I'm sure that the strength of the Virtuals would 
have other important effects on magick cast by MC Mages there, but I 
can't figure out what this effect would be (aside from the difference 
in Quint strength) - any ideas?]

    0       Main Corridor. Only Main Corridor has this rating. This
            means that the Corridor is an original and not a Virtual.
    1       Level 1 Virtual. The Virtual is derived from MC, but is
            strong enough that one point of Virtual Quint is
            equivalent to one point of MC Quint. The difference
            between Codes 1 and 0 is subtle - while a Code 1 Virtual 
            may be Quintessentially as strong as Main Corridor, it is 
            still derived from MC.
    2       Level 2 Virtual. The most common type of Virtual, where
            two points of Virtual Quint are equivalent to one point of
            MC Quint. 
    3       Level 3 Virtual. The weakest known Virtuals, these are
            particularly susceptible to destruction by the Darkness.
            Three points of Virtual Quintessence are equivalent to one
            point of MC Quintessence here.
    U       Unstable Virtual. Very few Virtuals receive this
            classification, which indicates that the Virtual is
            losing cohesion either through invasion by the Darkness
            or other unknown means. Collapse may or may not be
            imminent, but it is inevitable unless the process can be
            halted somehow (eg. Neverland).

    Note that there are no Virtuals weaker than level 3. 

    
-----------------------------------------
    The Human Factor:  The first number of any label, the Human Factor 
indicates the presence and strength of humanity in a given Virtual.

    1       Humanity is the only dominant race to be found (e.g. 
            our Earth).
    2       Humanity is the dominant sentient race, but others exist 
            in hiding (e.g. the World of Darkness).
    3       Humanity and one other race share (or fight over) dominance
            of the Virtual together.
    4       Humanity and multiple other races share dominance of the
            Virtual.
    5       Humanity exists, but another race holds dominance over the
            Virtual, keeping humanity subjugated or in hiding (e.g. 
            Vamp World).
    6       Humanity does not exist in the Virtual, and may never have
            (e.g. Sauron).
    7       No sentient races exist in the Virtual (e.g. XX).
    S       The dominant species is sentient, whether human or not.
    N       The dominant species, while most likely intelligent, is
            not sentient.     
    X       The dominant species no longer exists. This can occur
            through catastrophic war, disease, natural extinction, or
            other means (eg. Neverland).


-----------------------------------------
     The Magick Factor:  This factor indicates the strength of one or
more paradigms of magic in the Virtual.  This factor is also given a
letter designation as well, to better define the factor.

    0       Quintessence exists, as does Paradox. Thus, only Mages 
            and Awakened beings can perform magick. However, there 
            is no dominant paradigm, which allows the Mage to perform 
            all Vulgar Magick as if it was Coincidental. An example 
            of this is the MC Umbra. This is frequently the case in
            uninhabited Virtuals (eg. Lucifer).
    1       Magick does not exist in any form, and never has. Vulgar
            magicks are impossible, and coincidental magick causes
            paradox as Vulgar does normally. Escape from the Virtual
            is usually only possible by some special way (e.g. real
            Earth's Bermuda Triangle). Note however that Quintessence
            always exists, even on magick-free Virtuals.
    2       One paradigm of magick holds sway, and is commonly accepted
            as truth.  All others are subject to Paradox (e.g. the 
            Order of Hermes during the Mythic Era).
    3       A gathering of paradigms are merged and hold power, while
            all other magicks are subject to Paradox (e.g. the 
            Technocracy in the World of Darkness, and the Cabal of 
            Deathtech).
    4       All collective paradigms are empowered, but the threat of
            Paradox still exists due to mages still being few in
            number and the majority of individuals unaccepting of
            magick. For example, mages are capable of many feats
            expected of them, but Paradox would hinder other effects
            (e.g. Eldritch).
    5       All individual paradigms are supported, and Paradox is 
            non-existent. Individual thoughts (even of non-Awakened 
            beings) can alter vast amounts of reality. The Continuum 
            has yet to encounter such a Virtual and believes them to 
            be merely theoretical.

    C       One or more non-human species may have magical abilities,
            and only these creatures possess magickal abilities.
    T       Indicates the dominance of a technomancer paradigm.
    N       Indicates the dominance of a non-technomancer paradigm.
    M       Indicates the dominance of a mixed technomancer and non-
            technomancer paradigm.
    I       Indicates the existence of identical or similar paradigms 
            to MC in the Virtual.
    U       Indicates the existence of unique and unknown paradigms
            in the Virtual.

     
-----------------------------------------     
     Technology Factor:  This factor represents how similar the 
technology of a Virtual is to that of the mainstream (non-
Paradoxical) technology of Main Corridor.

    0       No technology exists at all. This code is commonly used
            Virtuals with no intelligent life.
    1       The technology of the Virtual is identical to that of the
            Main Corridor in every way.
    2       Certain minor differences exist between the Virtual and
            Main Corridor.  For example one world may have interactive
            television in every home, and/or Xerox machines are 
            unknown.
    3       Major differences exist between the two.  Citizens of a
            Virtual may all have hand held lasers and sentient robots
            while another still has yet to forge a suit of plate mail.
    A       Technology as it is known in the Main Corridor is non-
            existent, but an alien technology is highly commonplace.
            For example, a Virtual may utilize life energy to power
            its technology (which is organically-based as well).     
    F       Futuristic Technology. The technology within the Virtual
            has advanced to a level greater than that in MC.
    P       Primitive Technology. The technology in the Virtual is
            less advanced than in MC.


-----------------------------------------
    Environmental Factor:   This indicates how similar the physical 
environment is to MC Earth. It is useful for determining the need 
for physical protection before entering.

    E       Earthlike environment. No special environmental
            protection measures are needed.
    I       Inconvenient environment. Generally Earthlike, but
            surface conditions require special needs. Eg. Breathable
            but tainted air, planet covered entirely by water, desert
            or glacial planets.
    D       Dangerous environment. Air is still breathable, but
            physical environment is dangerous to life - eg. highly
            volcanic worlds, high radiation levels etc.
    X       Extreme environment. Conditions are not remotely
            Earthlike, and highly dangerous without substantial
            protection. Eg. no/toxic/corrosive atmosphere, unusual
            physical laws, very high or low surface temperature (eg.
            Lucifer)
            
            
-----------------------------------------
    Control Factor:  An important factor to explorers among the 
Continuum, the control factor indicates the level of freedom and 
oppression (and also chaos and stability) present in a Virtual as 
compared to that of Main Corridor as well as how the existence of the 
Continuum, Nexus and magick would be viewed by natives.

    0       No control. The Virtual is uninhabited. Code 0 alone 
            implicitly assumes that no Continuum Base has been 
            established on the Virtual. 
                However, Code 0B (see below) indicates that while 
            the Virtual itself is uninhabited, the Continuum *has* 
            established a base there. 
    1       The existence of freedom is omnipresent and individual 
            rights are held by whoever has the most power. The 
            concepts of justice and law are practically unknown, such 
            as in packs of animals.                
    2       The amount of an individual's freedom is based on his or 
            her social status, religion, or economic worth. For 
            example, in ancient Egypt, the Pharaohs held much more 
            freedom and power than the slave workers.
    3       An individual's freedom is subject to his geographic 
            position and government much as current politics dictate 
            in the Main Corridor.
    4       Only one governmental system can be found in the Virtual,
            containing limited amounts of control; a one world
            democracy/republic.
    5       Only one governmental system can be found in the Virtual,
            containing intensive amounts of control; a totalitarian
            one world state.
            
    B       The Continuum has established a Base on this Virtual. If
            already inhabited, this base is kept extremely secret.
            Usually, Bases are established only on uninhabited
            Virtuals.
    S       The existence of magick, Nexus and the Continuum must be 
            kept a secret from the natives of the Virtual at large.
            This code is given to all Virtuals by default, and only 
            extreme amounts of evidence will call for an A 
            classification.
    A       This Virtual has been, after vast gatherings of data, 
            found to be accepting of the existence of magick, Nexus
            and the Continuum.  Of the thousands of Virtuals the
            Continuum has found, only a handful have ever been even
            considered for A classification.     
            

-----------------------------------------            
    Entity Factor:  The existence of entities with vast power is 
often encoded into the labeling as well, but only if the existence of
such is known as an indisputable fact.

    E       Within this Virtual exist one or more beings of immense
            power equal to that attributed to gods of legend.
    W       This Virtual definitely does not possess powerful entities 
            such as Oracles, Incarna, or Antediluvians. However, 
            worship of similar such entities may still be present 
            despite the lack of "deities." Such Virtuals usually have
            low Magick Factors.
    U       The existence or non-existence of Powerful Entities in 
            this Virtual is unknown.


-----------------------------------------            
    Danger Factor:  The single most important label to many members of
the Continuum, the danger factor indicates the nature of especially
dangerous Virtuals.  Only the most deadly of Virtuals can expect a 
special notation.

    0       A literal paradise.  Threats to life are practically
            unknown and non-existent.  Only three Virtuals have ever
            received this code, and one later had it revoked.
    1       The dangers within this Virtual are roughly equal to
            those found within the Main Corridor and Nexus. This is
            the most common classification to be found for the Danger
            Factor.
    A       The animal life found on this world is much more
            dangerous than normally expected. Extremely so. Usually,
            such creatures are the dominant life of the Virtual.
    E       There are one or more entities in this Virtual which
            threaten those who would explore the Virtual. More often
            than not, these Virtuals are given a Z rating instead and
            are sealed.
    M       There are multiple factors that have combined to make 
            the world as deadly and dangerous as it is.
    P       The plant life found on this world is much more dangerous
            than normally expected. Extremely so. Occasionally, such
            creatures are the dominant life of the Virtual and animal
            life may be unknown.
    R       A sentient race present in the Virtual has been evaluated
            as too much of a hazard, and contact with members of this
            race is to be as limited as possible.
    V       There are one or more illnesses present in the Virtual
            which are highly hazardous. Many such Virtuals receive
            the Z rating if they are found to be great a threat to
            Nexus.
    Q       Quarantined. No contact is allowed from Nexus, except by
            specially trained teams and exceptional circumstances.
            The Portal to the Virtual is constantly guarded, and any
            inhabitants who escape (by having a Temporal Avatar) are
            hunted down and 'contained' - a complex procedure
            involving Mind, Prime, and Spirit magick which blocks the
            Temporal Avatar and prevents it from leaving the Virtual
            again. Additionally, all memory of the existence of Nexus
            is erased for the fugitive's mind. 
                This Code is usually applied to those Virtuals
            whose inhabitants are highly xenophobic, though there
            are other reasons. However, there is usually a reason why
            the Continuum wishes to continue accessing the Virtual,
            which would make Sealing it off forever (see below)
            undesirable.
    Z       The danger of this Virtual is so extreme and threatening
            to Nexus and the Main Corridor, that the Continuum has
            decreed that the Virtual is to be permanently Sealed for
            eternity. Should someone break the Seal they will be
            forced to undergo Gilgul. If they are lucky. Only a few
            Virtuals have ever received this rating.
                (Sealing is a very complex procedure, similar to the
            Containment of Temporal Avatars described above but on a
            much larger scale - it permanently shuts off the Virtual
            from Nexus. No-one can enter it, and no-one can leave it
            unless very powerful magicks are used).


-----------------------------------------
    Temporal Proximity: This indicates how similar the history of the 
Virtual is to MC Earth's. High Proximity ratings are indicative of 
those Virtuals whose history diverged from Earth's a long time ago - 
these usually have many natural and environmental differences to MC. 
    Remember that each Virtual is chronologically synchronised 
with MC Earth - in all Virtuals, it is now the year 1995 (even if the 
natives have a different dating system). However, the rate of 
technological/biological/social evolution may be different to MC 
Earth's, so civilisations on the Virtual may be more or less advanced 
than our own even though it is the same time.


    1       Recent Divergence. Branching from MC history occurred
            within the last century (ie. after 1900 AD, MC time).
    2       Millenial Divergence. Braching from MC history occurred
            within the last millenium (after 1000 AD, MC time).
    3       Bimillenial Divergence. Braching from MC history occurred
            within the past 2000 years (ie. after 1 AD, MC time)
    4       Ice Age Divergence. Branching from MC history occurred
            within the past 18000 years, since the last Ice Age. This
            span of time encompasses all of recorded human history.
    5       Prehistoric Divergence. Branching from MC history occurred
            within the past 650 million years (the dawn of the
            Cambrian Era). This encompasses the history of multi-
            celled life on the planet.
    6       Archaean (ancient) Divergence. Branching from MC history
            occurred within the past 4600 million years - up to the
            formation of the Earth (and Solar System) itself. 
    7       Universal Divergence. Branching from MC history took place
            before the Earth ever existed, up to 15000 million years
            ago - the birth of the Universe.

    Note that Virtuals with Proximity rating above Code 4 are 
increasingly likely to differ from MC Earth, as tiny changes in the 
Virtual's history this far back are likely to have very large knock-
on effects further down the line (Chaos Theory is alive and well in 
evolution...). 
    As a real-life example, the Cambrian Explosion, the huge 
proliferation of life that took place 650 million years ago, produced 
many bizarre forms of primitive life, including spherically 
symmetric forms, and even a form with seven pairs of legs and five 
eyes. If one of these forms had survived instead of the one that 
later evolved into our most primitive ancestors, then it is likely 
that the life that evolved from that initial 'progenitor organism' 
would not be bilaterally symmetric, possessing 4 limbs and a sensory 
appendage (the head).
    Note that Code 7 Virtuals are usually highly dangerous places, 
since the Earth either does not exist, or the physical laws (set at 
the start of the Universe) are different there. 


-----------------------------------------
    Unique Factor (ID Code):  To distinguish one Virtual from another 
that has an identical label, the Continuum uses a four letter/number 
code.  Also, Virtuals are typically given a "common name," used in 
the field and in less formal matters.
    The system used to identify Virtuals is usually as follows:
   (initials of discoverer, number of Virtuals discovered by him)

    Thus, Frederick Brown has discovered his 14th Virtual. The code 
will therefore be FB14. This system is commonly used to categorise 
uninhabited Virtuals.    
    
    However, in some cases the Virtual is given a special ID code to 
make it more recognisable. These Virtuals are the more commonly 
explored or better known ones, such as Sauron, Aegypt and Vamp World.
In these cases the ID Code is similar in appearance to the common name 
of the Virtual (eg. Sauron is SAU1, Vamp World is VMP5)

              ------------------------------------------
              ------------------------------------------
                   EXISTING VIRTUAL CODES (updated)
                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    With this expanded classification in mind, the Profiles for the 
existing Virtuals are now as follows:

KEY:    Name    -   Common name for Virtual
        Energy  -   Energy [Quint] rating
        Hum     -   Human Factor
        Mag     -   Magickal Factor
        Tech    -   Technological Factor
        Env     -   Environmental Factor
        Ctrl    -   Control Factor
        Ent     -   Entity Factor
        Dngr    -   Danger Factor
        Prox    -   Temporal Proximity
        ID      -   ID Code        


Name        Energy  Hum   Mag  Tech  Env  Ctrl  Ent  Dngr  Prox  ID

Vamp World    1     5S    2CI   1     I    5S    E    M     1   VMP5
Fungal Wind   2     1S     1    2P    X    1S    W    VZ    1   YF73
Wotan         2     2S    2CNU  1     E    5AB   E    1     3   WOT1
Aegypt        1     3S    2CMU  3A    E    3SB   E   EMQ    4   AEG8
Sauron        1     6S    4CNU  3A    E    3SB   U    1     5   SAU1
Lucifer       1     7      0    0     X    0B    U    M     6   LCF6
Neverland     1U    7X     0    1     E    0B    U    1     1   NVR0
Lemuria       2     4S    2CNI  3P    E    4SB   E    1     3   PT06
Terra Prime   2     1S    1TI   3F    E    5S    E   RMQ    1   TER1
Reich         2     2S    2CMU  2F    E    5S    U   RMQ    1   RCH1
Armageddon    2     1S     1    1P    D    1S    W    M     1   GB12
		
	Virtual 1-5S-2CI-1-I-5S-E-M-1-VMP5  (Vamp World)

First came the warnings of "Varney the Vampire" and then "Dracula," but 
it wasn't until the year 1908 that the world came to realize the truth of 
vampiric existence when the Damned Legion made it's first appearance in 
Germany.  With the powers that the vampires' held they overwhelmed every 
enemy they encountered, adding fallen soldiers to their ranks as they 
swept across Europe.  The first World War began as America, Russia, 
England, and African forces all united to contain and overwhelm the 
undead of Europe.  Then the Second Wave began.  
	In 1945 the most powerful heads of the Lasombra, including the 
Antediluvian, united to create the Darksphere, a twilight cloak across 
the globe that let in a twisted form of light so that plants could still 
grow, while keeping the world dark enough to protect the undead from the 
rays of the sun.  The plan would have succeeded completely if it hadn't 
been for the Tremere, who feared that amount of power belonging to any 
other clan.  The Tremere interrupted the Lasombra in the middle of the 
Darksphere ritual, causing the Darksphere to suffer from fluctuations, 
some temporary and some permanent.  Despite the lack of complete success 
with the Darksphere, the vampires initiated the Third (and final) Wave.  
	From hidden lairs across the world, the vampires attacked the 
resisting nations.  Some, such as England, were spared the cover of the 
Darksphere and were able to hold out better than others.  Nearly a 
century later the vampires have conquered the world, and only scattered 
bands of freedom fighters and nations spared the touch of the Darksphere 
can hope to resist.

	Currently the various clans of vampires view each other in a 
number of different ways, all under the leadership of the Lasombra led 
Camarilla against the Tremere supported human forces of the Sabbat.
	The Assamites were reluctant supporters of the Lasombra in their 
bid for dominance, eliminating VIPs among both human and Kindred.  
However, the Assamites still hold grudges against many among the Kindred 
for their part in the Tremere curse made during the dark ages.
	The Brujah relish the conflict, leading huge armies of ghouls 
into battle against the free humans for the glory of combat.  In fact, 
many Brujah allow humans to survive freely so as to provide challenging 
opponents to deal with, especially if said humans interfere with the 
other clans.
	The Gangrel tend to follow one of two camps.  The Warriors have 
joined the Camarilla as fighters and leaders, competing with the Brujah 
as warlords for either the Camarilla or the Sabbat.  The Isolated seek 
only peaceful existence by themselves in the wilds, away from all other 
factions.
	The Giovanni were known to have existed at a time long ago in the 
past, but all members of the clan seem to have been destroyed two hundred 
years ago.  Some rumor that a few, highly paranoid, individuals still 
exist in absolute fear for their unlives.
	The Followers of Set have joined with the Tremere due to repeated 
attempts by the Camarilla to destroy them.  With the protection of the 
Sabbat, the Setites have been able to increase their numbers greatly.  
Recent rumors also indicate that Set himself has been moved to Rome for 
reasons currently unknown.
	The Lasombra, after claiming leadership of the Camarilla during 
the Inquisition, led the vampires strongly and well.  With the awakening 
of Lasombra himself in the late 1890's, the clan was acknowledged as the 
one true leader by all.  Now, the Lasombra work to strengthen the 
Darksphere and continue rule of the others.  And aid Lasombra in his 
other projects.
	The Malkavians have united under the banner of a human claiming 
to be none other than Malkav.  Currently, he directs his followers to 
overwhelm both factions in order to free humanity again.  Many disagree 
with him, but this living mortal undeniably holds power unknown to even 
the Antediluvians.
	The Nosferatu, like the Giovanni in the past, are being hunted to 
extinction.  The Methuselahs and a few Elders are all that remains, but 
they have banded together in the islands of New Zealand and are preparing 
for the worst.  No life is allowed to come near the islands save the 
herds of native pigs.
	The Ravnos have joined the Sabbat, seeing the birth of the 
Darksphere and the complete devastation of the world as a horrendous 
abomination.  The Ravnos are also the only other clan to regularly deal 
with the Malkavians, who see them as worthy for survival.
	The Toreador tend to work as the "shepherds" of the Camarilla's 
herds of humanity.  The Toreador are known for their experiments in 
flavoring of human vitae, as well as grotesque arts they make of human 
flesh and bone.  They are perhaps the most despised of all the Camarilla 
clans, after the Lasombra.
	Tremere are the most "human friendly" of all the clans.  The 
Tremere have even gone so far as to teach the arts of hedge magic to 
those who will accept them.  They lead the Sabbat not only to ensure 
their own survival, but also to give them the power they so greatly 
crave.  With the awakening of Tremere, the clan as a whole is filled with 
a feeling of invincibility.
	The Tzimisce is unknown to natives of this world.
	The Ventrue have been relegated to a position of overseer of 
society, taking the roles of bureaucrats among the Camarilla.  The 
Ventrue objected at first, but the power of the Lasombra kept their 
voices silent.  But with Ventrue himself leaving torpor this may soon change.
	Other bloodlines are known to exist, but their power and numbers 
are limited at best.
	Humanity consists of either food stock kept in breeding kennels 
by the Camarilla, or free humans siding with the vampires of the Sabbat.  
The Camarilla discourages the creation of ghouls, instead preferring the 
creation of blood bound kindred.  The Sabbat however encourages the 
creation of ghouls, with humans using the Viniculum as a means to keep 
themselves free of the Blood Bond.  But even Sabbat humans refuse to 
become vampires themselves except in the greatest of need.
	Whereas the Camarilla cares nothing for the humans they deal 
with, the Sabbat knows that their continued survival depends on their 
unity with mortals.  As such, Sabbat vampires commonly only feed from 
animals, blood bags, or willing individuals.  In return, free humans 
often give blood donations to keep their allies fed.  While neither side 
enjoys the situation, both prefer this over enslavement and death.
	Also of note is that werewolves, mages, wraiths, and faeries are 
unknown to exist save only as legends.  Even the Antediluvians don't know 
the truths behind these legends.

	With the creation of the Darksphere, the entire environment was 
altered.  While plants can still grow, they tend to suffer more mutations 
than before, growing stunted and twisted, or enlarged and tumorous.  
Crops are still safe for consumption, but the plant life looks greatly 
changed from what we would recognize.
	The structure of the Darksphere is flawed, allowing pure sunlight 
to creak through from time to time in various places.  Some areas like 
England and the central United States are completely free of the 
Darksphere, but these areas are very rare.  Despite the freedom the 
Darksphere gives vampires, it also has a cost; vampires have become 
vulnerable to the light of the stars at night as if it were an overcast 
day.  Walking unprotected at night will burn the flesh of the Kindred!
	Currently England, the Bread Belt of America, Australia, and Rome 
are the only strongholds left of free humanity.  Of these four, only the 
first two are free from the grasp of the Darksphere.  Australians tend to 
be paranoid even by free human standards, the only thing keeping them 
alive.  The power of faith shines in scattered areas, but no where does 
it shine stronger than in Rome, stronghold of the last free humans to not 
ally themselves with the Sabbat, the Inquisition.


		Virtual 2-1S-1-2P-X-1S-W-VZ-1-7YF3  (Fungal Wind)

	The Cold War was a time period of weapons stockpiling, in 
preparation for a war no one really wanted.  But despite the power of the 
atomic bomb, on this Virtual the weapon of choice wasn't nuclear, it was 
biological.  Both NATO and the Warsaw Pact nations spared no costs to 
develop the ultimate weapons and cures, leading to highly advanced 
understandings of bio-chemistry, genetic engineering, and other 
"monster-creation" sciences.  
	With the reign of Kennedy and Khruschev came the Cuban Missile 
Crisis, but with a decidedly different ending.  Kennedy, receiving 
erroneous reports of a "germ-missile" launch from the USSR towards 
America ordered the launching of the US germ-missiles.  Soon, all sides 
were launching all matter of horrendous microbes and organisms in what 
became known as the Fungal Wind (so named due to the heavy amount of 
Fungal Wind released in Cuba by the US during the first launch).  When 
many of these creations were exposed to each other, the low background 
count left from the few atomic blasts, and the tailor-made antibodies 
created for protection, the germs mutated into even more bizarre life.
	Decades passed as human civilization disintegrated, forcing 
mankind to revert to bands of nomadic hunter-gatherers.  Over 40% of the 
population of the planet was wiped out by the accumulated diseases; the 
death tolls would have been much higher if it weren't for the limited 
effectiveness of advanced antibiotics and medications.  In the present 
day over hundreds of viruses still roam across the globe, most notable 
being the Fungal Wind.
	The Fungal Wind is a horrible disease that takes root in a 
person's respiratory system where it incubates without any sign of 
symptoms.  After a period of two weeks, the virus spreads to the host's 
nervous system and becomes air-transmittable.  At this point, victims 
begin to experience slight headaches that grow in intensity and 
duration.  After another two to three weeks the virus completely destroys 
the victim's higher reasoning powers, turning him into little more than 
an animalistic predator.  During this stage the victim's eyes turn to a 
dark black, as the virus attacks the optic nerves.  Finally, after 
another three weeks the victim dies, his nervous system completely eaten 
away.
	Another problem often encountered is that of the Impregnator, 
also known as the Maggot Momma'.  Genetically engineered from several 
predatory insects, such as wasps and mosquitoes, the impregnator is a 
race of hermaphroditic flying insects that are constantly breeding.  The 
Impregnator injects its eggs, via its stinger, into any warm blooded 
mammals it can find.  Once injected the eggs soon hatch and begin to eat 
the insides of their host, careful to avoid the vital organs of its host 
in a way similar to some wasp larvae.  As the larvae grow, they begin to 
burrow their way to the surface of their host, where they "hatch" fully 
grown.  Entire swarms of Impregnators have proven deadly to both humans 
and farm animals, decimating thousands of both.
	Even the waters of Fungal Wind are a threat due to hundreds of 
new life forms, including the HEPs.  Hallucinagenically Engineered 
Protozoa are microscopic algae that grows in fresh water.  The HEPs are 
ingested by animals and people, causing the ingestor to experience a 
series of audio and visual hallucinations of a frightening nature, a "bad 
trip" that can last for days depending on the amount of HEPs a person has 
consumed.  In addition, the HEPs have been designed with an additional 
feature; while boiling will kill the microbes, their hallucinogenic 
chemistry will still remain effective for days.  Only the collection of 
steam for condensation back to liquid will be free of the HEPs.
	Hundreds of other life forms exist, along with hundreds of minor 
mutations among each species.  So far, these three are the only life 
forms researched among the Continuum explorers of Fungal Wind.  Other 
life forms, some not so microscopic, have eradicated those who have tried 
to study them.


		Virtual 2-2S-2CNU-1-E-5AB-E-1-3-TR5O  (Wotan)

	Wotan is so named due to the presence of a unique individual 
known as Wotan (called Odin from here on) in the Norse mythos.  While 
almost identical to the Main Corridor, Wotan is different in a few 
significant ways due to the centuries long presence of Odin.  The races 
of Kindred, Garou, Mages, Faeries, and Wraiths are completely unknown.  
Odin claims to have slain them all, single handedly, millennia ago.  Also 
of note is the strong presence of the Church of Odin as the largest 
religion of Wotan.  Other religions such as Hinduism and Buddhism still 
exist, but most monotheistic beliefs were turned to the worship of Odin 
long ago.
	Continuum explorers have long debated over the history of this 
Virtual, but have been able to determine a few facts.  They have been 
able to prove that Odin is a being of power equaling that of an Incarna 
easily, but possessed of human emotions and mentality.  Secondly, Odin 
desires nothing more than to lord over his some patch of the multiverse, 
and as such the Continuum openly interacts with him and exchanges 
non-sensitive information.  The presence of Odin dates back at least 1700 
years, and some believe this could be extended another 500.  The worship 
of Odin is done partially out of fear and partially from faith by the masses.
	The Continuum has also noted that some (Wotan's equivalency of 
Christians and Moslems) view Odin as a great deceiver, trying to lure 
them away from the worship of the "true Lord."  They point to the 
meddling of Odin in human affairs as the work of a great evil being, but 
the Continuum disregards these statements as the words of envious 
religious minorities.  Odin finds the entire situation quite humorous. 
	The existence of other Norse gods in Wotan is denied by Odin, but 
they may exist elsewhere.  The Continuum dreads the concept of God-like 
beings hopping around the multiverse, using Nexus as a launch pad.  As if 
this weren't enough, many of Odin's children (of whom there are hundreds) 
possess limited versions of Odin's vast powers.  











