The Spheres according to the Cult of Ecstasy
--------------------------------------------

Row, row, row your boat
gently down the stream
merrily, merrily, merrily
life's just a dream

What is Reality? Everybody seems to think it is important,
so perhaps we should talk about it. Actually, nobody I
have ever talked to really knew, although some thought
they did. I don't know either. But I know one thing; what
most people think is real isn't. They are just walking
around inside their imagination or perhaps a cosmic
hallucination. Most of the time it is quite hard to
notice, I must admit. But sometimes the illusions slip a
bit, especially when you're drunk, tired, happy or just in
a weird mood.  Things happen, which most people just shrug
off and think "I must have drunk too much!". They haven't
drunk enough! 

Actually, most of what we call "reality" is just a big,
consensus hallucination. Most people just think time and
space and everything else is real, and don't realise its
just their minds which makes it up as they go along.
That's why most people become so confused and irritated
when they see something that doesn't fit, like an optical
illusion. They want to remain asleep, in their comfortable
boring illusions. But its our job to wake them up! We must
show them that lots of the things they see when they are
drunk or dreaming are more real than the things they call
"real". We must show them that life is one great party, if
you want to enjoy it! 


Correspondence
--------------
Space, the final frontier! 

Well, space doesn't exist, its just that we humans love
ordering things. So we order all places into a neat
pattern from left to right, up and down, and say "this is
space". But the order is really unimportant, and you can
shuffle the deck, draw one card (don't show it to me).
Take a look at the smoke from your incense and try to tell
me which tendril is most to the left. That one... no that
other one! Actually, you cannot do it, because they are
always moving, changing place, dissolving into air and
reforming.  Just like space does, if you look carefully at
it (through the corner of your eye). or perhaps don't look
at it, smell it! Smell has no shape, no size and yet it
exists. 


Entropy
-------
Entropy isn't what it used to be... 

Its a confusing sphere. That makes perfect sense, because
it is about confusion. When the illusions break down
people call it entropy and think it is chaotic, unordered
and bad. But if they looked a bit closer, they would
notice small holes in reality among the decaying
illusions. Maybe that's why most people instinctively
dislike decay and randomness. The Ring is a fitting symbol
for entropy: its just a hole. 


Forces
------
There are a lot of forces around. In a way they are like
different wines, different exciting tastes and strengths,
but deep down they are all fermented grape juice. After
all, they are illusions too. But they cause changes, weave
new patterns of illusions or unweave old. That's why we
use music to control them. When you listen to music, you
hear change, how different forces interplay and create
something new and bigger. But its also non-verbal, primal,
the music talks directly to your subconscious and bypasses
those silly illusions which otherwise would have barred
our use of forces. 


Matter
------
- What is Matter?  
- Never Mind.  
- What is Mind? 
- It doesn't Matter. 

Matter is the greatest illusion of all. It seems solid,
and practically nobody questions it. That's why its so
solid. But deep inside its hollow anyway, like everything
else. Its the gold in the ring surrounding the hole. If
you can see the hollowness inside, you can make the matter
disappear, or appear as you structure its illusions. 
Actually changing it is harder, but one type of hole is
similar to any hole. 


Mind
----

Mind is that elusive thing that some humans seems to
possess, that gives them the power to think, to feel and
to do things. It can create new illusions, see through old
illusions or change the way illusions look. Music talks
directly to it, at a most fundamental level. It can make
you sad or happy, make you think or just drive you nuts.
And that's just ordinary music! Have you ever played a
song for your mind? 


Life
----
Life is wonderful! 

Of all illusions its probably the nicest. It is the source
of the primal joy of existence, the only thing that makes
living worthwhile. Just living is an exquisite pleasure if
you ever take the time to feel it. Pleasure in all its
forms is what really makes it tick, and the way we change
it.  Feel pleasure yourself, satiate the desires of your
own life and make the other life feel it!  How can you
ever change something if it doesn't want to be changed? So
make the change as pleasurable as possible, for both
yourself and whatever you are changing! 


Prime
-----
This is the stuff dreams are made of! Literally.

Prime is what gives the illusions and dreams more or less
substance. Its a bit like the universe had some kind of
attention, looking closer at certain things, thus making
them more real and defined. Behind its back, the illusions
just get tangled and confused. But remember, you're a part
of the universe too (no kidding!), so what you decide to
pay attention to is important. If you can distract
yourself from what you think you are seeing, you can
change what you pay attention to and make new things clear
and what passes for real around here.  Imagine a beautiful
butterfly, pay real attention to it, give it a toast, and
there it is! As always, pleasure is a good way of
distracting yourself, or make your subconscious more
interested in certain things. 


Spirit
------
Ah, these spirits! And I don't mean the alcoholic kind! 

You know how characters in your dreams seems to have ideas
and do things on their own? And a lot of authors I have
talked to tell me how the characters in their books do
things the author didn't expect. maybe spirits are just
dream characters in the cosmic dream. Unlike us, who are
real of course! They don't seem to be as fixed as us,
perhaps because they pay less attention to such things as
shape and matter, or because they live in the Umbra. But
they are really good at understanding what really matters,
like emotions and illusions.  Their Umbra is a strange and
wonderful place. Since so few people know about it, and
don't try to force it into a neat shape, its filled with
all the dreams, illusions and weirdness that doesn't fit
down here. It really shows how reality really looks in its
"natural" state.  Its as transient and ephemeral as the
smoke from the incense. Have you ever really looked at it,
and seen the spirits dancing in the strands of smoke? 


Time
----
Time is an illusion - Lunchtime doubly so. 

Human minds love to order things, so we say "this happened
before that". Actually, things happen, but not necessarily
in order or at the same speed. We have all noticed how
time sometimes seems to fly or crawl. That's because when
we are thinking of something else, we don't keep track of
time, and it just dissolves. If you stop thinking about
it, even subconsciously, it will not exist at all. The
best way of just ignoring it is to do something else, the
more pleasurable the better.  When you are overwhelmed by
pleasure, time will dissolve and become whatever you want. 


