From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Wed Aug 16 17:58:16 1995
Date: Wed, 16 Aug 1995 17:58:15 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
To: wod-l <wod-l@netcom.com>
Subject: Cultist Rotes
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.91N2.950816175654.6279A-100000@hemul.nada.kth.se>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8BIT
Status: O
X-Status: 

A few rotes to make life a bit easier to experience...

Right Place at the Right Time (Time 1 Corr 1)

This little effect is usually done subconsciously and coincidentally by
the mage: he is always standing in the right place to avoid
unpleasantness. When the Oracle of Correspondence teleports into the room,
the cultist is not the one standing at the spot where he appears... 


Liquid Pleasure (Matter 2 Prime 2 Mind 2/3)

Some cultists want to give others a taste of the pleasures they
experience, so they create bottled experiences. This range from the mixing
of odd drinks which lets the imbiber experience whatever emotion the
cultist wants to drugs which cause visions showing the secrets of the
cult. 


Traffic Jam ( Correspondence 3 Entropy 2 Prime 2)

This rote was devised by Kurt Fjällström of the Children of Bacchus to
disrupt the quintessence flows in the traffic networks of a city.  He
quickly downed a rather large amount of whiskey, and then began to drive
through the city in a car he had "borrowed".  Needless to say, his drunk
driving and absolute disregard for traffic rules soon caused complete
chaos wherever he drove. But through his intuitive understanding of the
ebb and flow of traffic, he also managed to make the disturbances grow and
spread across the entire city. The result was a memorable traffic jam,
made even worse by the summer heat and the presence of other tradition
mages subtly affecting the already irritable mood. 

[ The Correspondence part allows the mage to affect a large area, and to
avoid getting trapped himself. Entropy affects traffic flow and prevents
random accidents, while the Prime part fuels the growing chaos and allows
the mage (in conjunction with Entropy 1) to find the parts where the
Technocracy would want a traffic jam the least. ]


Shure, I'm Pefectly In Control... (Mind 3 Life 3)

Many drunk people think they know that they are doing, or that they are
capable of doing things they normally would avoid. Some Cultists have
taken this to heart, and get completely drunk before undertaking risky or
complex business. In this way they don't have to worry about any risks,
and since belief is reality, they are in fact just as (or even more)
capable as when they are sober. 

[ During the duration of the rote, intoxication causes no penalties to any
abilities. Although the mage is roaring drunk and suffers from the usual
lack of judgement, he will not do anything directly stupid or hurt
himself. In some situations they even think they can do more than usual;
add as many dices as there were magick successes to their dice pool if it
fits the story and the roleplaying ]. 


Do Not Suffer Today What You Can Suffer Tomorrow (Life 3 Time 4)

This rote is commonly used to avoid the nasty after-effects of partying
for some time; the cultists simply pushes them further into the future. It
can also be used to move pain, hunger or other negative experiences ahead,
and even move wounds into the far future. They will still be felt, but
(hopefully) at a time of the cultists choosing. 

[When the displeasure appears (as determined how far into time it has been
pushed) it will give the usual penalties, in addition to the penalties the
mage may have had before. Moving wounds is very dangerous, since the mage
may suddenly find himself mortally wounded ]. 


Love is in the Air (Mind 2 Life 2 Prime 2)

Some cultists enjoy spreading positive emotions around themselves, and
this rote was developed as a simple but efficient tool. The mage creates
"love germs", which infect people and give them positive feelings.
Gradually the happy emotions spread through a crowd, changing the overall
mood. The type of emotions are determined by the will and personality of
the mage; some mages spread happiness and joy, other hardcore lust. 

[The "love germs" are completely outside of the realm of technocratic
science, they are immaterial beings which spread their emotions to anybody
they infect. The number of successes in casting the rote tells how strong
and tenacious they are; everyone who interacts with an infected person
under the duration of the rote will have a chance to be infected (this is
resisted by willpower, modified by nature and mood). These newly infected
persons in turn infect others (although now with an infection one success
smaller etc). ]


Fan-shaped Destiny (Time 5 Correspondence 3)

This rote is reputed to have been invented by the Dealy Lama many
millennia ago, although the venerable sage of course only jokes about it
when questioned. The mage sits in his temple, breathing incense doped with
hashish. Gradually his vision of time and space broadens, until he can see
all the different futures in their totality. He can then pick and choose
what futures will come to be, by seeing exactly what events are needed to
bring them about, or how to avoid them. One of the main problems with this
rote is that once the mage begins to see existence at this level, he
quickly begins to realise how insignificant most events truly are. 
Instead of caring about the obvious problems, he will begin to explore the
far futures in search for ever better solutions, which often are extremely
long-range plans. 

[The number of successes denotes how far into the future the mage can see
and comprehend. He then has to roll more successes with his willpower with
a difficulty of 8, or become lost in contemplation. ]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




