From owner-wod-l@netcom.com  Wed Jul 31 01:43:59 1996
Received: from mail5.netcom.com (root@mail5.netcom.com [192.100.81.141])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id BAA24747 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Wed, 31 Jul 1996 01:43:54 +0200
Received: (from daemon@localhost) by mail5.netcom.com (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id EAA03712; Tue, 30 Jul 1996 04:01:41 -0700
Received: from lendal.york.ac.uk (lendal.york.ac.uk [144.32.128.21]) by mail5.netcom.com (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id EAA03573; Tue, 30 Jul 1996 04:01:04 -0700
Received: from tower.york.ac.uk by lendal.york.ac.uk with SMTP (PP);
          Tue, 30 Jul 1996 11:58:21 +0100
Received: by tower.york.ac.uk (950511.SGI.8.6.12.PATCH526/940406.SGI)	 
          id MAA26946; Tue, 30 Jul 1996 12:00:01 +0100
Date: Tue, 30 Jul 1996 12:00:01 +0100 (BST)
From: Little Man From Another Place <yg100@mailer.york.ac.uk>
To: wod-l@netcom.com
cc: mage-l@oracle.wizards.com, gm-l@netcom.com
Subject: A conversation
In-Reply-To: <199607281849.NAA01324@thymaster.interaccess.com>
Message-ID: <Pine.SGI.3.91.960730115459.22995A-100000@tower.york.ac.uk>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Sender: owner-wod-l@netcom.com
Precedence: list
Reply-To: wod-l@netcom.com
Status: RO
X-Status: 



			 The Setting:

		" A Red Room of the Black Lodge "

	This is the plan of the room where the mages meet, in front of the 
Sleeper.

	________________________________________?
	|					?
	| *	   Neph       Mar		?
	|				   ()	?
	|	---------------------		?
	|	|		    |		?
	|	|                   |		?
	|   Sle	|     Table         |		?	
	|	|                   |	   ()	?
	|	|                   |		?
	|	--------------------|		?
	|					?
	|	   Tech	     Trad		?
	|   ()				   ()	?
	|					?
	----------------------------------------?

Where:

() are big halogen lamps,
|- are cutrains of red silk, which seem to go forever 
	(top of the room is lost in darkness),
?? is a unseen (ie dark) area.
The Table is a green marble in color and has a glass of red wine in front 
	of all persent. There is no food.
* Is Something different for every mage present.
Neph    = Nothing.
Mar     = Everchanging colors.
Trad    = A large ring, of gold in the form of a braided
	snake with rubies for eyes and pearls for fangs.
	In it's mouth is a triangle of jade, with three
	black stones surrounding a diamond infinity loop.
Tech    = The mathematical description of None Euclidian Space.

==============

	"I remember the day they came to me. 

	It was in 5 years. Paradox "dumped" them in my care, in my place. 
I think they were in a magickal fight of some kind, when something turned 
wrong. 

	Whose fault was it? Who does what? Why will they be here? Why them?

	I don't know all the answers, but the game started when the first
one woke up"

	23 KNS was in his late 20's wearing a black X-files teeshirt
-- the one with the Trust No One on the back, inside the letters you could 
see a host of "dusters" in the sunset--. His black leather trousers were 
over big biker's boots. White, as if the sun rarly cast her rays on him with a 
definitly traces of asian ansestors. Two colored iris, gave him an air of 
mystery that his companions loved.

	He had a silver ring on his right hand index finger.

	His voice sounds a bit too hight pitched to be natural, and one could
wonder if he is he, or a she...

	" What the Hell are we doing here???" are the first word that break 
the silence of the room. The Sleeper smiles, and with an unearthly voice 
utter:

	" You are traped my freinds... Your magick was too powerful, and 
Paradox dumped you into my care. However, It might allow one of you to return
to the reality you are familiar with. That one will have to show me why I 
should let him go back, and why should I choose him instead of the others. 
Let us talk and share the secrets of True Magick ... "

        David sweeps back his dishwater blonde hair with a clump of 
fingers acting as a comb.  It sits for all of two seconds before gravity 
-- or sheer perversity -- tugs it back over his glistening ice blue 
eyes.  He smiles despite himself, and straightens his scarlet bow tie.  
His left hand, encased in a black leather glove, moves stiffly and 
unnaturally.  He wears the Richard Tyler tuxedo like a fencing gauntlet, 
signifying his preparation to strike at any moment.  En garde.
        Looking about the room, he sniffs at the lighting.  "My kind of 
place.  Could use a bit more candles, though.  Why do these realms always 
have to be so fucking depressing?"  Then, for a moment, his eyes linger 
on the tile scheme that covers the floor.  His nigh Aryan features gleam 
for a moment, and he laughs, as if suddenly understanding the punchline to 
a rather vulgar joke told to him two years before, that had he realized it 
then, would have made his evening.  As it is, it just amuses him.
        "I see that we have found ourselves in an old place.  I always 
preferred the classics, myself."

	Bernard suddenly looks up from the table, fixing David with an 
intense gaze that is both filled with fear and surprise, as if the remark 
had revealed a horrible truth to him. After a moment he relaxes back into 
his chair, almost vanishing in his smelly grey coat, his face hidden in the
shadows again. With one hand he gently touches a pocket to check that its
contents -- something flat and thick, not unlike a big pocket book -- are
still there.
        After a moment he moves forward again, this time calm and
reassured. Raising his glass he almost smiles, as if he knew something the
others did not understand. The red wine seems to reflect like blood in his
burning eyes.
        "Cheers, everyone. Let's see who will first spill the wine from the
prison and think the stains are God? The saint, the rope-dancer, the 
academic or the disciple?" 

	Aaron looked to be in his forties, or his sixties- his 
face smooth, but with deep lines in it- worry lines, pain lines,
too deep to be relaxed in sleep.  His fine greying hair lay in
disarrayed strands.  He stirred sightly,twitching and muttering as if 
from a nightmare.  Abrutly his eyesflew open and he stared about wildly, 
crystal blue eyes unfocused, as if he was seeing a completely different 
scene.  Gradually his sight cleared, and he relaxed back into his chair, 
not bothering to look around.  He sighed deeply, and smoothed his hair 
back, eyeing the ring in the corner.

So."  His voice was deep and smooth, like a musical instrument.  "Oddly 
enough, I'm completly usuprised.  I thought I would be."  He spends a 
moment lighting a pipe produced from somewhere in his tweed suit, and 
stares at the curling smoke. 
 
"I know this place.  For quite some time I've knew that I would end up 
here.  I suppose I should feel accomplished at that.  But then is this
a punishment, or prevention?  A cure, or a"   He
shrugs.  "Not that it matters.  I have allready lived too long for
comfort.  Well then, please begin."

23 KNS :

	"I am of the Technocartie..."

The words echoed on invisible wall, as if sound itself was laughing.

	"or to be more exact I am of the Void Engineers, a tradition among
the Technocratie. We search space for answers to our questions, but for everyone
with found, there are a million more to ask." 

	-- 23 KNS voice went too hight for a man, making all think that he might
well be a she. --

	" We joined the Technocartie after Newton, and his law provided a way 
for us to travel thru the deep Umbra, and exploring it. How foolish are those
who think that Quintessence can only be found on Earth, we found that it was 
everywhere, in a multitude of forms, and shapes. We found several new life 
forms. Again, humans are fools to think that they are the only ones around.
Some of them even used Magick -- his bi-colored eyes looked to the left, 
to meet those of Bernard, and he smiled -- and Paradox was still there, even 
if they didn't believ in sleepers. We tried to use more and more power to go 
faster and further deep. Then Newtons law were shattered... What a joke that 
was. -- 23 KNS voice went for a moment above human hearing, then resumed in a 
more masculine way -- Einstein, Planck, and all the others were ours, not of 
the Technocratie. 

	You see it all comes down to Static and Dynamic. The Technocratie was 
SO static: refusing even to do a new thing. -- Truning to the Bernard -- All 
they used against you was made before this century. The Technocratie is out 
of ideas, and they still live in victorian times. The technocratie is frozen 
in time, a few more years and it will shatter as a man cooled in liquide 
Nitrogen. We were the only Dynamic in all those years. Looking and thinking.
Einstien wanted to Unify all the "laws of physics", we wanted to unify all the
law of magick."

	-- stillness in the room, as 23 KNS was siping from the wine glass
in front of her --

	" ... And we did unify some of them. Mind and Spirit first, then with
matter (remember e=mc^2 ?). The Time and Correspondance... and so on. We are 
now teaching our children 3 laws, not 9. That's how we survived in the deep 
Umbra: 3 things to worry about, not 9 (or 10 as some of you think). Actully, 
we are still working on those 3, we want to find the ONE sphere: Magick. We
are even teaching the "seepers" to think for themselves. But here we are 
in war witht he Technocratie big time."

	-- Again her voice went above human hearing for a few seconds, then
she turned her eyes toward the Sleeper --

	" Is my cloak falling here? -- the Sleeper nods -- Oh jolly good; I 
do prefer fins to arms. -- before the whole assembley, the human coat of 23 KNS
felt onto the floor and a porpoise was "floating" in his place -- That's better.
You seem surprised? well, you thought only mankind could use magick? You were
still in your trees that we were already making rituals in the deep of the sea.
Shows you how close minded you all are... Never mind, back to the main thing.

	Yes, ever heard of Schroninger's cat? Well, you put a cat in a box
with a radioactive element, you seal the whole thing. the element decays, the
cat should die. But all our mathematical equations, show that the cat is 
half dead, half alive! only when YOU open the box, do you kill the cat. YOU
are the one that matters, not the whole Univers. You are "The Most Beautiful 
One", Kallisty. The more we go into physics the more you will find that. It is 
OUR view that matters... And those fools of the Technocratie still consider us 
their best allies. Yes, we are slowly Illuminating all the Sleepers of earth.
Sooner or later, more and more of them will see themselves as the fitter to 
have the golden appel of Eris. 

	All good so far....Well, not realy.

	Actully, the whole sleeper myth is just that: a myth. We discovered 
clues in the Deep Umbra: No sleepers, No paradox, right? well, tell that to 
some of us. We discovered that Paradox was still there, and boy was it hard
when it hit us. When the first of us went to Arcadia, after it was sealed, 
we talked to the Feys there.. And tried magick there are well: BANG Paradox
BIG time. We were blind as well. A bit less than the Technocratie, but not 
much... Schroninger's cat was the key: WE are setting OUR limitation on magick. 
paradox is created by US. That's Ascension. Everyone is capable of creating 
his own world, free of all the others, yet linked to all the others. The Fey 
call it the Dreaming, we ascension, does a name matter? A Buddha told one 
of his monk: "If you find a river, and built a boat to cross it. Do you 
take the boat with you, or leave it behind for others to use?". Our boat is
mathematical, and we are leaving it behind for all who wants to use, but your
boats are no better or worst. Let us bring the dreaming back, and all of us
from Marauders to New World Order, via Traditions, and Nephandi will reach 
Ascention." 

	-- turning her head towards the Sleeper, the Porpoise known to her 
poeple as Dance Crystal Glass spoke for the last time -- 

	" Let any of the others go. I will stay. Hopefully they will tell thier
fellow mages about me, and what I told them... Then the dreaming will have 
even more chances of coming back, and all will reach Ascention..." A hint of 
fear was present in her sweet voice, as she spoke those words...

	So one of them finished her talk, so another one started his. 

Bernard :

Bernard looked up owlishly, mumbled something unheard to himself, patted
the book in his pocket as if for reassurance, and then straightened and
began to speak. If he had previously given the impression of a smelly
hobo, he now had the presence of an untidy but brilliant academic. 

"Actually, this room has no walls." He pointed towards the red drapes in
the darkness. "We could walk out from here at any moment. But that would
be counterproductive, since we are here to witness the birth or death of
somebody or something." He leaned back, and watched the others intently. 
When nobody seemed to understand he began to nod to himself, and raised
his glass. 

"This doesn't exist. Nothing exists. Or perhaps everything. They are all
the same - unformed, raw Ding an sich. Then we filter them, like spaghetti
through a sieve, where we... but the sieve doesn't exist. The spaghetti of
God..." he smiled to himself and was just about to drink the wine when he
stopped and looked at it, then at the Void Engineer who had returned to
his (or her?) usual state. He put down the glass and turned to one of the
others. 

"Your kind has never understood what His death meant. Some took it
literally, and laughed because they either though it was a lie or just a
bit of rebellion. Others understood what it meant, and believed they had
known it all along - falling into the third trap, the trap of the
Technocracy." 

"But most of you fall into the first trap, that of the priests. You do not
*dare* to be totally free, so you pay lip service to His death, and then
celebrate *your own mysteries* on His grave! Blasphemers! And the worst
thing is that you have nothing to blaspheme against, since you decide who
is God and what He thinks. If you want, God could be vengeful and demand
sacrifices, ordering the rape of millions - or He could be the letter
Aleph, signifying itself. Both are barriers against the greatness beyond." 

"And you!" Bernard turned to the next person. "You have at least seen the
greatness, and you have proclaimed it yours! You think you own it, or that
it owns you, or both in an endless dance of unalienable rights to
abomination! You let yourself be enslaved by whatever sights or things you
see, or your freedom, just to escape from the responsibility of choosing
what is right or wrong. Actually, you are worse off than the priests,
since they at least think they have walls around themselves. You know
there are no walls, so you think you will not need any shelter. But the
storm will blow away your shell, since you have denied it too for your
vaunted 'freedom'". 

"Finally, there is the risk of thinking one has avoided the potholes." 
Bernard seemed to calm down, becoming almost reasonable. But the fire in
his eyes burned. "One thinks one understands the general scheme of things,
can handle the great open spaces and still build a good house at the
foothills of Etna. Then death comes as a surprise!" Bernard laughed until
his tears ran. 

"All of us are wrong. Otherwise we would not be here. I'm just aware of
how wrong I am, and I don't care. I. I. What a wonderful word - it almost
implies that somebody is here. That there is a shell for the formless." 

He raised his glass for the third time, now looking solemn, like a
rosicrucian priest in a hieratic robe raising the Grail towards the sky. 
"What am I holding? Anybody?" 

"A glass of wine?" somebody ventured. 

"*A* *glass* *of* *wine*?! 'A': there are no material things, doesn't
*you* teach that?" He stabbed with his hand in the air. "Glass: doesn't
that imply form? But there is no form, just the idea of form. And the idea
of form is not form. 'of': so you think the glass belongs to the wine,
like *you* belong to the Greatnesses Beyond? Or perhaps the wine belongs
to the glass, since it cannot survive on its own in this harsh world where
ghosts and goblins eat your flesh and drink your blood, and need a hard
casing to stand time and force. Wouldn't that be what *you* once would
have said? Wine: that is the secret. Do you see how it dances, how it just
*is*?  It is the meaning of all this, the universal solvent, the drapes
that hide the Beyond and the formless form of das Ding an Sich. And this
is what you others seek to kill, to shape, to give meaning. But I don't
care. I do not need meaning, consistency, logic or death. They are yours,
you can keep them." 

Bernard drank messily, almost enraptured, from the glass, wine running
down his cheeks and staining his clothes. He dropped it on the table,
where it shattered into glittering shards and running droplets. 

"See! We have sacrificed God - and he is still dead and alive!"

David :

     "I would have preferred to wait," he began, "because that's
what we do.  That's what we're always doing.  Those of us you see
are indeed the truly mad.  They cannot wait for the inevitable
dissolution of all that is, so they lash out with impetuous
vigor.  It's enough to make a sadist such as myself cry.
     "Why do the Nephandi seek to only corrupt, destroy, rend,
tear, smash, dissolve?  No two Nephandi follow the same path, so
each will give a different answer.  Many are unaware of the road
they travel, or the ultimate destination.  They can perhaps sense
an inkling of the eternal, and have knocked it, and found it
hollow.  Eternity is a farce, and we intend to prove it.
     To understand us, you need to look at our humble beginnings. 
We are Chaos.  No, not the chaos advocated by my dear colleague. 
That chaos is the smallest essense of what we represent, the
aspect which dwells long in the light of life and creation.  It
derives purpose, and pays a hideous price for that purpose:
enslavement.  Even the most addled-brained Marauder will have a
method to his Madness.  Indeed, it is my experience that the most
insane Maurauders possess a clarity of thought that is
frightening to behold.  You are our poor cousins at best, playing
at rebels without truly understanding what you rebel against.
     "For those who have not suckled at the teat of Darkness, it
is difficult to explain what it is we do, and why we do it.  It
has to do with the blasphemy of Creation, and the return to the
ancient order of things.  The closest a Sleeper came to Dark
Enlightenment without coming to our side was John Milton, an
English poet.  It only cost him his sight, which he gladly threw
away, rather than seeing again the truths we would reveal.
     "In his poem, Paradise Lost, the protagonist, Satan, decides
to investigate a place called Eden.  He travels to the lip of
Hell, and steps off in order to take wing.  Much to his
astonishment, he falls further.  Hell itself is a respite from
the Abyss that lies beneath his feet.  Before he can catch
himself, he encounters the AllMother, Chaos.  It was this
primordial chaos that the Creator imposed order upon to fashion
not only Earth, but also Heaven and Hell.
     "How like Quintessence.  How like the visions of the
Technocracy, whose agents filled the poor poet's mind with lies
about the indominability of order.  Eden, you see, was run like
clockwork.  It had internal plumbing.  It made sense like any
good Machine, and humanity turned from that Machine, and that
turning was a sinful thing.
     "So they wallowed in darkness for a time, but that darkness
had form, meaning.  Its strugglings were ultimately futile, but
they were ever present.  Mankind learned to use evil as a
stepping stone to keep out of the primordial chaos that lay at
the foundation of all things.  As long as they stayed above that
evil, they felt they were safe.  In truth, the presence of this
evil just kept them from having to deal with what awaited beyond
feeble human morality.
     "I awakened a long, long time ago.  I was helped, as are so
many widderslainte Nephandi, to understand what it was that grew
within me.  We believe that the Avatar is a crutch, and that it
is only when we let go of that Avatar, that we truly comprehend
what we were, are, and shall be.  As long as we dwell in this
world, the Avatar is a useful tool.  Why not fight fire with
fire?
     "You seem shocked.  The Avatar, useless?  Look at all the
Sleepers who get by without one.  The Avatar limits the will
worker into performing Magick along very limited channels.  There
are those who perform miracles without upsetting the paradigm,
without being concerned about the varaties of Paradox.  One can
certainly "get by" without an Avatar.  The Nephandic process of
replacing a defective Avatar with superior Infernal Endowments is
a perfect example of our ability to diagnose and give our
"client" precisely what they require. 
     "Of course, there are those who claim that we take advantage
of the gullible, by doing half a job, removing a perfectly good
Avatar, sending it to Hell or some such place, and torturing it
for all eternity.  This is an interesting interpretation on the
truth, which is that we take the Avatar, and rather than
releasing it to find some other sap, as occurs with death and
gilgul, we instead destroy it outright.  Avatars are not an
eternal thing, and it is these shards of the Pure Ones that
prevent us all from returning home to the bosom of the AllMother. 
By systematically destroying every Avatar, we smash the powers of
the Pure Ones, who created this hell, a vast pool of gasoline
where any fool with two neurons is handed a pack of matches, and
told,  keep warm, kid.'
     "We also do take advantage of the gullible, as is only
right.  Even the Technocracy could not undermine this basic rule
of the universe.  "Survival of the Fittest.  Selfish Genes." 
They're different names for the same phenomena.  Those things
that have the most advantage will survive in a given environment. 
The universe has no place for weakness, and neither do the
Nephandi.  One becomes a true Nephandi the moment one understands
that simple rule.   I will exist as long as I hold an advantage. 
The moment I do not, I will perish.'  We do not fear death and
dissolution.  Those who prolong their existence do so because
they can, because they possess certain advantages that allow them
to last.  If they had no purpose, certainly another Nephandi,
with a purpose, would take the life of his useless brother, which
would be surrendered gladly.
     "That is the nature of all Nephandi.  However, not all
Nephandi are alike.  Some serve Intelligences as old or perhaps
older than the Pure Ones.  They remember the time of Primal
Chaos, and they long to return to it.  They cannot, so long as
the sin of the Pure Ones seperates Order from Chaos.  So these
entities reach out into Order and corrupt aspects of it.  They
cannot move directly within it, for to do so would taint them as
well.  Instead, they employ agents who are often told only one
part of the overall plan.  Despite the fact that they move in
darkness, their tasks are often far from complex, and far
reaching in their implications.  Most are not chosen for their
subtlety.
     "The Triatic Wyrm is a tragic example of an Intelligence who
went too deep into the world that the Pure Ones created.  She had
a goal, and she tried to follow it, and soon she found herself an
integral part of the Cosmos.  To step away would have been too
dangerous for all involved.  Is is any wonder that she went
insane?  In truth, she does do a useful job, attacking certain
lynchpins of reality.  However, as the truly Enlightened know,
she is caught, and her usefullness is coming to an end.  If she
cannot free herself, she will cease to be an advantage, and
others will come for her.  My greatest wish is to be there when
the Garou find themselves fighting side-by-side with Nephandi.  
     "Those Nephandi who believe in balance, as represented by
the Triatic Wyrm,  are usually those who can only deal with black
and white morality.  They need to believe in the righteousness of
their cause, and we who know give them everything they require. 
Even if they are deluded, they do often possess certain
advantages, usually amongst those simple minded creatures like
the Garou who believe that all reality can be summed up in a
single universal model.
     "At last, there are those Nephandi who believe that there is
no evil outside of man himself.  This is a variation on tiresome
cartesean doubt.  All that exists are those things that come from
within, so it makes sense, in a world of subjectivity, that all
things are a reflection of the inner self.  This, of course,
implies that the human race are masochists at heart, and does not
adequately reflect the numerous experiences we have had with
agents of those intelligences who possess information well beyond
the scope of human experience.  Those who possess this belief are
rightly regarded as madmen at best, and there are thankful few of
them around.  Rather, this belief is held by certain members of
the Traditions.  The Technocracy have no doubts that these
creatures of the id do indeed exist.  They've been battling them
for the past two millenium.
     "At the core of all Nephadic belief is the utter objectivity
of the universe.  We prefer to think of ourselves at one corner
of a vast tapestry which each sect tugs upon."
     "He stared at his finger for a moment, and nothing came. 
Shaking his head, he popped the tip of the finger in his mouth
and chewed.  "The price I pay for good media."  He then sketched
the following diagram on the table:


                    INDIVIDUAL
      ___________________________________
     [                                  ]
     [Nephandi                Maurauder ]
     [                                  ]
O    [                                  ]    S
B    [                                  ]    U
J    [                                  ]    B
E    [                                  ]    J
C    [           Sleepers               ]    E
T    [                                  ]    C
I    [                                  ]    T
V    [                                  ]    I
E    [                                  ]    V
     [                                  ]    E
     [Technocracy             Traditions]
     [__________________________________]

                    COLLECTIVE

     "There.  Of course, this is only a rough sketch.  For me to
formally present this, I would have to rely upon fourth
dimentional matrixes, and a cup of demon's blood at least.  What
it says is that both the Nephandi and Technocracy believe in an
Objective universe, a truth that lies behind the veneer.  Where
we differ is in how this belief can be known.  They believe that
only through the joining of many minds can the complex universe
be made clear, just as a thousand singing voices form a mighty
chorus.  We, on the other hand, feel the exact opposite.  We do
not manufacture the objective universe.  It's there.  We can only
come to know it -- truly know it -- on a case-by-case basis. 
What works for one will not work for another.  Thus the demon's
belief in individual, rather than collective, corruption.
     "Glossing over the rest of this, it's easy to see that the
Maurauders believe in a subjective universe, which can be
understood on in individual basis.  The Tradition's need to
cluster into various groups to define what ought to be personal
belief lands them in the final corner, where they spend most of
their time, sulking.  I'm sure they'd love to believe in an
objective universe, but to do that would be to lean too close to
the Technocracy, as so many of the Order of Hermes do.
     "This diagram also explains who so many Technocrats come
over to our side.  When they feel that the party line of the
Conventions is too stifling, they don't run to the bickering war
of the Traditions.  No, rather they fly unto us, and we're only
too glad to accept them.  They see things with their eyes that
they cannot doubt, objective mysteries too terrible to deny. 
When the Technocracy tells them that they're delusional, where
else can they go? 
     "The odd thing about my diagram is that it creates a place
for everyone, or nearly everyone.  Ideally, we should be able to
all get along, but there are those in each group who would use
cries of immorality against us.  Imagine, someone believing in
the subjectivity of the universe, spitting and fussing about
morality!  I solemnly assure you, there are Euthanatos far more
barbarous than any Nephandi, and it is not through our agency
that they fall.  Instead, tehey get so tied up in their own
personal paradigm that they, in essence, ignore all others.  The
poor fools become objective, ignoring the very real needs of
others.  We are exceptionally cruel to these recruits, as the
wind that blows them can rebound at any moment.
     "And so it goes.  We have our place in this universe.  We
are an intrinsic part of the so-called  natural order.'  All
things fall apart, as the Maurauders are fond of saying, but do
they break down into garbage heaps, relics of dead civilizations,
or do they further crack and stress, ultimately dissolving into
nothing, nothing at all?  We, unlike our insane friends, do not
immediately assume that a jump from A to Z is a good thing. 
Instead, we work carefully, tearing away, making sure that no
lump too large seperates, and manages to seed more Chaos.  That's
how this world came into being, or so we are told.  We are
willing to stomach order, just as long as it makes the world
large enough to fall down very hard.  We are willing to play its
games.  Because ultimately, we know that we will win.  
     "How is it that we possess this secret knowledge?  That's
where we of the Nephandi step away from the lesser groups.  We
know for a fact that the Technocracy was built on the learning of
those who came before them.  Likewise, most of the Traditions
have either based their mysteries on information granted by
spirits or left by some older group.  The Marauders claim close
kinship with mythic beasts, who tell them all they need to know. 
All receive information from revealed sources, and yet few if any
will admit it.  
     "The Nephandi freely admit our indebtedness to those
intelligences who came before us.  They are the souce of our
information, and ultimately of _your_ information.  Without their
cthonic crusade, they would have not sent agents to tempt and
corrupt, to give tools that would one day become weapons.  Why is
it that the mere KNOWLEDGE of Good and Evil was so terrible?  And
what _was_ the nature of that serpent in the Garden?
     "We are not long for the world, in any event.  Those who
survive the coming cataclysm will move on to another world.  So
it will be, until the last of the Avatars are extinuished.  Only
then can we truly be pure.  Only then can want and desire, have
and have not, ultimately be resolved.  You may not care for our
methods, but they are the only ones that work.  For every sick
bastard we bring to our side, ten take up arms against the
darkness.  Of those ten, five eventually roll up into a ball,
rather than face the truth.  Two of those who remain turn against
the remaining three.  One spends his entire life, searching for
our nature, the second searches for another earth to flee to. 
The last -- the last of the ten is, of course, a spy.
     "I care not for your decision.  Even if you fail to choose
me, then I will dissolve, and my essence will pour through the
cracks of reality, and undermine it further.  There is no escape,
there is no chance for truces.  There is only a half-death of
eternal torture, where sweet Chaos laps at your essence for a
small eternity, and then swallows you in your sorrow.  Accept
your fate now, choose me, and prepare yourself.  Defy me, ignore
my words, and the future will be very hard for you indeed,
especially knowing what you know now.  Even now this knowledge
eats at your resolve.  You will not break today, not tomorrow,
but one day.  One day, the doubt you carry within you will
blossom, and as the weed cracks the rock above it, we will tear
at your Avatar, asleep or awake.  In the end, it doesn't matter
what you choose.
     "I've already won."

Aaron:
 
Aaron almost appeared to have been asleep through all this, silently
sitting, his chin between his clasped hands, smoke from the pipe on
the table wreathing his head.  After the echoes from the last speaker 
faded away, there was a moment of silence before his eyes flickered
open and he began to speak.
 
"I apologize, I am not as fancy or as eloquent as the younger ones, 
just an old man who who has been running on borrowed time for far too 
long.  Forgive me if I ramble."
 
There was a pause as he studied his pipe, then he sighed and 
looked back at the sleeper.
 
"True Magic then.  One might as well talk about True Life, or True
existance.  It's the same thing, really.  First you perceive, then
you act.  You can not do one without the other- or even separate
the two."   He smiled slightly.  "You could, I suppose, think of the
entire universe as a single quanta, ready to be frozen into a single
state by an observer's glance." He looks over at the Technomancer. 
"Suprised I can talk the talk?  I'm not blind to other possibilites; 
'Know thy enemy, understand thy enemy.'" He hesitated and his eyes gazed 
into the distance.  "Because sooner or later you _will_become thy enemy.  
Sooner or later...."  He stirred and shook himself.  "Typical isn't
it?  A bunch of men sitting around talking philosophy.  Pity my wife
isn't here- She'd have put paid to 'all this nonsense...'.   
 
"But" he said abruptly, "Since I'm near my end, let's talk about my 
beginning.  Hold off on the why WE fight and magick, in favor of why
_I_ work magick and fight.  Get to the large from the small, as above, 
so below."

He paused, considering.  When he began again his voice was reflective, 
darker.  "I would not have chosen magick.  It chose me.  First the
dreams, then the impulse to action, then the awakening.  Perception and 
then action.  The training, the knowledge, all secondary, all compelled
and only partially under my control."
 
"Remember this, our quietest secret: Magi don't do magic themselves.  It
is done by the part of their souls called the Avatar- or the Holy 
Guardian Angel, the Ka,, the voice of Gaia, the One, or any of a hundred 
other names.  Remember also this: the Avatar, whether part of the soul, 
or parasite- is  _sentient_.  It has it's own agenda.  There is no way
of escaping, if one does not want to follow it's path to Ascension. 
If you choose  not to, or (gods forbid) can't physicaly manage it- 
then it will push and push and push.  It knows all the right ways to
hurt you, it knows all the things you hide from yourself, and this 
perfect critic never, ever goes away, whether drunk, asleep, or sick
or dying..."

"Because it _is_ you: the purest innermost part of yourself.  And if
you are NOT following it's path, you are betraying yourself."

He sighed and spoke barely above a whisper.  "I know... Gods I know 
that truth."

When he started again, his voice was rougher- "So that is why I was 
comepelled to magick.  Why did I fight?  Mostly due to anger.  I saw all
the damage from the various games we Awakened play.  I saw bystander's 
memories of families and friends ripped away by the Technocracy, seen 
children lose their souls to appease demonic masters. I've tracked 
the blood spilt by a madman who never saw the innocents destroyed by
his path.  And I coulden't say whether the world would be worse off
if none of us existed.  I kept fighting because I thought I saw the 
future they would force on humanity; the paranoid, sterility, lonely 
iconoclastic madness, or nihilistic destruction.  That is why I fought- 
not for Ascension but for the people left bloody and destroyed in our 
wake. " 

"At least that is what I _thought_ it was all about.  I know better
now of course."

"And so we come to the greater from the lessor.  Why do the Traditions
fight, why do They work magick together?  They don't agree with one 
another, they have no common goal or way of viewing the world. In fact, 
without our mutual enemies, we would be at each others throats.  And
so I started wondering..."

"When I was young I said it was all for the goal of Ascension; later on
I thought it to survive, or to protect the sleepers. Still later in 
cycnisicm I thought it was out of habit, or by a shared sense of  
futility.  But none of these ideas fits gentlemen.  None explains why
the Traditions banded together, or why they have stayed together in
spite of centuries of bickering and failure after failure."
  
"So, I have a new theory."

He stared gravely at each of the others for a long moment before 
continuing.  When he began again, it was in the level tones of a
lecturer.  "All things in existance are defined by position, form, and 
tension.  In other words, _contrast_.  Consider one of the factions- 
the Nephandi for example.  Alone they are undefined- Like a point they 
are a singular universewith no boundries.   They cannot oppose. for 
there is nothing to oppose.  They cannot have goals, direction, success,
for there is nothing to give them form.  Now, given two groups- we do
have opposition, and comparasion with each other. But we have no 
stability- merely two dots on a line.  Lines being endless, they only 
have partial boundries, and void on either side pulls them apart, to 
separate and be lost. Given three points we have a plane and the three 
sides form a triangle- the first eclosed, stable finite object.  The 
opposition on two sides produces tension and definition."

"you can see here the three factions; Maruaders, Technocracy, Nephandi. 
So then, where do the Traditions fit in?  We are opposed on all sides
of the triangle: the rigidity of the Conventions, dynamicism of the 
Marauders, destructiveness of the Nephand. We also partake of 
characteristics of all these groups we oppose. Thus we cannot be a
side, but must be surrounded by them-in the center."

" We then, are the tension point; the ones in the middle, defining
and being defined.  Indeed as all things are defined by what they
are not- we are the terminally derived form- the formless form."

"I've had to conclude that we do not exist to conquer the others, or 
impose ascension.  We exist to balance the others- maintain the 
equilibrum of definition.  For if _any_ of the groups succeeds-
including the traditions- all will perish.  Indeed, it is _impossible_ 
for the Traditions to succeed."

He looked again at all present, and managed a smile at once sad,
resigned, and proud.  "That is what I have deduced.  That
Ascencion for us is the denial of ascension for the others."

"And that of course, is why I have to die.  If not here, then soon. 
This self-knowledge is not for one man to contain- or the factions to 
accept.  Point of fact... my avatar itself cannott contain or accept 
this revelation; it rebels at the idea.  I feel it even now beating at 
the walls of my physical and spiritual form, denying, rejecting, telling 
me that I am wrong, evil, betraying myself..."

His voice faltered.  He sat there for a while, rubbing his temples,
looking smaller then before, tired, shrivelled, old.  He finally
straightened and looked levelly at the sleeper.
 
"_THAT_ is why I am here.  Whether it is my hubris, or true revelation,
_that_ gentlemen, is why I am here."

"But of course you don't believe my ramblings.  Of course not.  But
thank you for your indulgence gentlemen- for listening to an old foolish 
man.  Forget what I have told you, please."  He smiled and half raised 
his hand, almost in benediction, then let it drop as he gazed at the 
symbol in the corner.

	The Sleeper filled all the glasses with an imaginary bottle. Taking 
his glass, he looked at the four more powerfull beeings in the world, and 
bid adieu to one of them.

	There was the sounds of hopelessness in the room. 

					The End . . .

by 	Yann Golanski (aka: Little man from another place), 
	Timothy Toner (aka: Thantos),
	Anders Sandberg,
and	Eric Tolle.

 /\	.sigs 1 to 3 where sabotaged during editing.  .sig4 disappeared
 \/	shortly after completion.  .sig5 is our last best hope for wasting
\/\/	bandwidth ...


