From nv91-asa@oder.nada.kth.se Fri May 27 17:48:38 1994
Date: Fri, 27 May 1994 17:39:20 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@oder.nada.kth.se>
Subject: The Central Prime Alignment Council
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9405271720.B22311-0100000@oder.nada.kth.se>


The Central Prime Alignment Council (CPAC) is an amalgam
dedicated to the large scale streamlining of the ley-lines
and nodes of the Earth, and the distribution of quintessence
and Tass among the conventions. Needless to say CPAC is very
powerful, and while the symposium may be the highest
authority over the policy, the Council has authority over
the implementation of the policy. 

CPAC has members from all the conventions. The different
conventions are responsible for different aspects of the
work of the council. The New World order is responsible for
security and administrative matters. The Syndicate is
naturally interested in all aspects of the flow of
quintessence, and integrate it into their Market. They are
especially responsible for using the Masses to manipulate
ley-lines and nodes on a global scale. Iteration X is
involved in technical matters. The Void Engineers are
responsible for the upkeep of the Barrier and theoretical
aspects of Primal Engineering. The Progenitors are not very
involved in CPAC, but have representatives and advisors on
the board. 

CPAC seeks to realign the ley-lines which criss-cross the
Earth into a neat and efficient pattern. So far it have
succeeded quite well in some areas. Its decisions are
implemented by the different programs it has started among
the conventions, often in close collaboration with
convention-specific programs and other councils. 

The Infra-Structure Realignment Program (ISRP) is one of the
earliest and most successful programs of CPAC. By building
railways, highways and other types of infra-structure
between cities, the ley-lines of the rural areas are
realigned to point into the cities. This makes the urban
reality stronger and lessens the impact of the chaotic rural
and natural areas outside. Since we has better control over
the cities and can tap the nodes inside easily, the ISR
program also gives us enormous amounts of quintessence. Its
not uncommon for the Conventions to place their regional
headquarters beside highways or in the city core where all
the controlled quintessence collect. A spin-off effect is
that the cold iron in the railways effectively trap the fey,
isolating them into controlled areas. This program has
naturally been tied closely to the Asphalt Barons. 

Another spin-off program, the Large Scale Prime Balancing
Program (LSPB) attempts to use the network of artificial
ley-lines to neutralise fluctuations in the primal fields.
This is useful to avoid the irritating seasonal changes in
mood and reality which appear in some areas, and make sure
static reality is stable and reliable. 

A related program is the Global Prime Integrity Watch (GPIW)
program, which monitors the flow of Prime in the network the
Technocracy has created (and in large natural ley-lines). It
keeps track of fluctuations, and try to pinpoint their
sources. Its closely tied to the Global Integrity Security
Council, which keeps track of the Barrier and other
supernatural dangers to static reality. 

The International Long Range Realignment Program (ILRRP) is
an extension of the ISRP. It deals with large capacity
primal conduits like transcontinental highways, large
waterways and other long range structures like pipelines. It
is also responsible for integration of different projects
across borders and different conventions. 

The Interstellar Quintessence Interception Program (IQIP) is
testing ways of extracting the quintessence flows from
interstellar sources like Cygnus-X1, M87 and the centre of
the galaxy. This is done by the Void Engineers.  Currently
it uses small modifications of existing radio-telescopes to
extract the quintessence while they are observing the target
objects. The results so far have been promising, and IQIP
plan to use the Hubble Telescope to test out the new system
on a large scale. 

The Prime Technology Research Program (PTRP) is developing
new and efficient methods of detecting quintessence,
ley-lines and nodes, methods of safely manipulating them and
ways to neutralise them. Its heavily sponsored by Iteration
X and the Void Engineers. 

The Oceans have long been a stumbling block for the CPAC.
These vast areas have practically no supervision, and in the
lack of large populations of indoctrinated sleepers both the
gauntlet and reality is weak here. Disturbances of reality
is much more common here than on land, and although the main
traffic pass through "safe" areas, certain places like the
Bermuda Triangle are very unstable.  The ley-lines in the
seas are also much more inaccessible and hard to control,
since they are less tied to humanity. On the continental
shelves we have gained some control through their off shore
drillings for oil (thanks to the Geophysical
sub-convention), but the deep sea remains uncontrollable. 

The Global Oceanic Realignment Program (GOR) seeks to solve
these problems. It promotes serious oceanographic research,
and tries to apply its results. One of its earliest
successes was the transatlantic cables, which at least
created some safe ley-lines. One method the mainly Iteration
X sponsored program is to use its more advanced robots to
build realignment foci on the deep ocean floor. Since there
are no sleepers nearby, the program can use much more
convenient methods to build these foci (which mostly are
camouflaged as large basalt formations). 

One problem of the early GOR-program was the whales. They
found that the more intelligent whales was not only highly
intelligent (albeit rather alien) but also often awakened
and generally objected to their research. As a response the
Syndicate was ordered to increase hunting, and today the
most dangerous cetaceans have been nearly extinct. Those who
remain are kept under strict observation. The smaller
dolphins turned out to be much more humanoid, and Iteration
X has experimented with cyber- modifications and other
methods to turn them into an efficient workforce. However,
several tribes of dolphins are objecting to this so the
Progenitors are going to wipe them out with some custom
diseases. 

Another problem is the almost total lack of Barrier in the
deep ocean. Since practically no humans have ever been
there, the Barrier is very weak, and passage to the Outside
is frighteningly simple. A sub-program of GOR, the General
Oceanic Preventative Initiative (GOPI), tries to amend this
by spreading Barrier- increasing chemicals on a large scale.
This is camouflaged as oil- spills, waste dumping and
pollution. Some ecological damage is a small price to pay
for security against the forces from the Outside. 

As seen, CPAC is one of the most active and efficient
councils under the Symposium, and an important tool for the
total Ascension of Mankind. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




