From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Fri Sep  5 15:16:31 1995
Received: from comp.uark.edu (sbabb@comp.uark.edu [130.184.253.197])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id PAA24537 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Tue, 5 Sep 1995 15:16:25 +0200
Received: (from sbabb@localhost) by comp.uark.edu (8.6.12/8.6.12) id IAA16020; Tue, 5 Sep 1995 08:15:09 -0500
Date: Tue, 5 Sep 1995 08:15:08 -0500 (CDT)
From: "D.J." <sbabb@comp.uark.edu>
To: "C.THOMAS" <ah4186@qmw.ac.uk>
cc: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
Subject: Creatures of the Continuum
Message-ID: <Pine.SOL.3.91.950905081242.13389A-100000@comp>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Status: RO
X-Status: A

Creatures of Nexus:

    Scattered throughout Nexus are numerous forms of life unique to the 
dimension.  Some forms of life use the fluctuations of time to accelerate 
themselves, slow their prey, or even as a source of food. Continuum 
researchers have discovered many strange plants and animals, and even a 
few even more exotic life forms, manipulating time to aid in their 
survival.  Below are just a few of the more 
commonly encountered creatures native to Nexus.


Lance Grass-   The plant known as Lance Grass appears as a patch of very 
thick grass of irregular size, with some blades no more than a few inches 
tall and other blades several feet in height. Whenever a creature passes 
by, advanced thermal sensory cilia in the grass triggers a growth 
reaction in the smaller blades, causing them to shoot up from the ground 
and impale themselves in the passing animal.  After the blades strike 
their prey a set of secondary cilia along the blade begin to siphon 
fluids from the slain creature. Once the plant grows out to its fullest 
length, it can no longer accelerate its growth and will soon sprout 
thousands of baby seedlings around itself. Lance Grass has been known to 
stay in the seedling stage for decades, waiting for a passing animal to 
start its growth cycle.
    Some species of Lance Grass are known to grow fractally - these are 
identical in behaviour to the normal species, but as they grow in the 
body the blades split into smaller and smaller fractal branches.  Also, 
the sructure of the fractal plant constantly appears to shift depending 
on which angle it is viewed from. 
    [Lance Grass can be treated as having 0 STA and 0 STR. For every 
square meter of grass present the plant can take three wounds, and 
attacks with a damage of 2 and an automatic hit. Once a patch makes an 
attack, it can strike repeatedly due to it's numerous seedlings.]


Fungal Wind-  A horrible parasitic fungus has recently been 
discovered in one of the Virtuals and brought back to Nexus where it has 
thrived (see "Fungal Wind" in Virtuals). The Fungal Wind is an airborne 
spore that takes root in any mammal's lungs and throat.  Once in place 
the spores begin to grow throughout the creature, increasing his 
adrenaline and endorphins while destroying his nervous system and body. 
Once a creature is infected he becomes a transmitter, spreading the 
spores to all who come within ten feet of him (three feet in Nexus due to 
the speed of growth the creature experience.  While the Fungal Wind 
typically took five to six weeks to kill its host in its home Virtual, it 
grows more rapidly in the more humid environment of Nexus - this gives 
its host only three to four weeks of life. But the Fungal Wind of Nexus 
does not completely destroy the host's mind, turning him into a fully 
rational creature of death and disease.
    [Whenever a mammal is exposed to a carrier (or group of carriers), 
have him make a stamina roll (Difficulty of 10, three successes needed). 
If he succeeds he is immune to all attacks of Fungal Wind, if he fails he 
becomes a carrier. In Nexus the Fungal Wind changes a character's 
attributes as follows: STR +2, STA +4, all Manipulation scores at -5.  In 
the original dimension the Fungal Wind caused the following changes: DEX 
-1, STR +3, STA +5, INT -3, WIT -2, and all Social Attributes at -5.
    Life magic can be used to affect the Fungal Wind, but all attempts 
are at +2 difficulty.]


Shimmer Wave-  The debate continues among Continuum members as to whether 
or not this is even a form of life.  The "no-lifers" say that the Shimmer 
Wave is merely attracted to the bio-electrical fields of living 
creatures, much as dust in space is attracted to planets by gravity. The 
"lifers" disagree, stating instances of Shimmer Waves using tactics to 
stalk its prey and other Waves seemingly trying to protect Continuum 
researchers.
    Either way, Shimmer Waves appear as bizarre, two-dimensional clouds 
of golden light up to a dozen meters in diameter. Shimmer Waves wash over 
plant and animals, either accelerating or reversing the age of a 
creature. Inanimate objects are also affected, but the Shimmer Waves are 
drawn towards living creatures. There appears to be no known reason for 
Shimmer Wave behavior, or any way to predict which path a Wave will age 
those it passes over; some will be aged and some will be made young 
again. In fact some Waves have been known to immediately return to those 
it has passed over, reversing its own changes.
    [For those the Wave ages, subtract one from all Physical 
attributes and add one to all Mental attributes.  For those the wave 
makes young, subtract one from INT and STR, and add one to DEX and STA. 
Inanimate items are also affected so that an old car may become new 
again, or a new watch may turn rusted and stop working.]


Keevar-  The Keevar are a breed of dinosaur-like carnivores 
originating from Sauron that are able to "jump" through their 
evolutionary path. The first form of the Keevar is that of a giant shark 
with legs to swim, the second is a very fast tyrannosaur creature that 
uses it arms to grab prey, and the third is a large winged harpy-like 
beast. The Keevar will shape-shift throughout combat in order to frighten 
and confuse its prey. Keevar always travel alone, except during the 
mating season when huge flocks will gather for an orgy of breeding.  
    Many among the Continuum fear that the Keevar will soon develop 
another form, a form that will give the Keevar the power to force the 
Continuum out of Nexus.  Given the growing intellect of the Keevar, and 
the increasing numbers of Keevar, this view is gaining followers quickly.
    [The Keevar have three forms, and are able to change from any form 
into any of the other three once per turn. Keevar health levels are 
shared between forms so that if a Keevar take five wounds in its shark 
form, all forms have five wounds less. Keevar health levels are: OK (x5), 
-1 (x5), -2 (x3), -3, Incapacitated, Dead. 
    Shark Form-  STR 10, DEX 3, STA 12, PER 4, Dodge 3, Brawl 3, 
Alertness 3. Treat as having 4 points of armor. Bite (Diff- 6, Dam- 12), 
Trample (Diff- 8, Dam- 14). Running Speed- 15 yards, Swimming Speed- 35 
yards.
    Tyranno Form-  STR 11, DEX 5, STA 10, PER 3, Dodge 2, Brawl 5, 
Alertness 2. Treat as having 1 point of armor. Bite (Diff- 6, Dam 14). 
Running Speed- 35 yards.
    Harpy Form-  STR 6, DEX 9, STA 8, PER 6, Dodge 3, Brawl 1, Alertness 
5. Claw rake (Diff- 6, Dam- 6), Bite (Diff- 8, Dam- 8). Flying Speed- 45, 
Running Speed- 9 yards.]


Fallers-  Fallers are only theoretical to the Continuum at this point. As 
a series of data collections was being conducted in Nexus, the research 
team began noticing fluctuations in the time-stream.  The researchers 
were able to determine that something was traveling backwards through 
time, and that this something was about to appear.  Ten minutes later one 
of the members was comatose, three had disappeared into the future, and 
two were dead and partially 
devoured.
    With mental probes of the comatose victim, the Continuum was able to 
discover that a species of insects were falling from the future into the 
past, and that they used sentient life from the times they entered to 
take their place in the future. Some Continuum members fear that these 
creatures acting in Nexus, and the Zigg'raugglurr acting in Gaia, point 
to the existence of the Aswad of Time waiting for them in the future of 
the Continuum.
    Further inconclusive encounters with the Fallers have yielded enough 
information to allow the Continuum to at least theorise about their 
nature and behaviour (though as yet no-one has seen a Faller in the 
flesh). It appears that Fallers are beings that travel linearly (but in a 
non-continuous manner) through time, from our future to our past. As they 
travel, they devour Quintessence from Patterns around them in order to 
power their jumps back through time - the amount of Quintessence devoured 
determines the span of the jump. This puts Mages at great risk, as their 
Avatars can provide much fuel for the Fallers' journeys...

    The consensus in the Continuum is that Fallers are very insidious 
agents of the Darkness, created to destroy Virtuals (though they can be 
found in Nexus). They arrive at the end of the timespan of the Virtual 
Corridors (perhaps where the walls of the Virtual are the weakest) and 
travel back in time along the Virtual, devouring any Quintessence along 
the way. When they arrive at the START of the Virtual Corridor (remember 
that the universe before the Virtual branched off from Main Corridor is 
also duplicated when the Virtual is created), they are very powerful 
through the Quintessence they have devoured along the way, which allows 
them to devour the nascent Virtual universe before it even has a chance 
to form - of course, this means the Virtual effectively never existed. 
Since they are agents of the Darkness, the Fallers themselves are 
unaffected by the destruction of the Virtual - however, since the Virtual 
itself never formed (because they ate it when it was young) all the 
Quintessence they absorbed never existed. So they leave the 'destroyed 
Virtual' with no more Quintessence that they started off with, and then 
move on to another Virtual, where they arrive at the end of that 
Virtual's timestream relatively weak and start the whole process again. 
    There are obvious similarities between the Fallers and the 
Zigg'raugglurr in MC, and it is believed the two are related somehow. 

    [No one has yet encountered a Faller and been able to give a complete 
description; even the mental probings of the comatose subject revealed 
little. However, the Continuum fears that Fallers cannot be wounded by 
those outside of their timestream, and that the only way to hope to stop 
them is to freeze time in an area, and let Fallers fall into the frozen 
moment.  
    If anyone should encounter Fallers their stats are as follows: STR- 
5, DEX- 6, STA- 3, PER- 4, WIT-???, INT- ???, Brawl- 3, Dodge- 2, 
Alertness- 3, Other Abilities- ???. Claws (Diff- 6, Dam 6), Bite (Diff- 
7, Dam- 8). Has 2 points of armor. Health Levels- OK (x2), -1 (x2), -3, 
Incapacitated, Dead.]


Tran-  The Tran are a species of carrion-eaters with the ability to 
foresee the deaths of other creatures.  The wolf-like tran are usually 
very peaceful creatures, especially since they know where their next meal 
is coming from.  But, if food is scarce, tran have been known to attack.
    Despite this, most animals are calm in the presence of a pack of tran 
who are just waiting.  Continuum members in Nexus often look for tran as 
a warning of impending danger.  Sometimes fate will not be denied, and 
the presence of tran causes enough fear and excitement that the very act 
of fleeing causes creatures to die.
    [Tran tend to travel in small packs of three to six members. Tran 
stats are as follows:  STR 2, DEX 3, STA 2, PER 3, Dodge 1, Brawl 1, 
Alertness 3. Bite (Diff- 6, Dam- 3).]  


-------------------------------------
Time Mosquitos- These insects are the Nexus version of common 
mosquitos, but suck time instead of blood. They usually suck out a few 
seconds, which will vanish while the insect is biting - the victim will 
just notice that everything seems to jump a little bit, nothing more (the 
bite is however rather itchy). However, a swarm of time mosquitos can be 
quite irritating or even fatal, as they suck out time at a cruicial 
point. These swarms are very confusing, since the mosquitos phase in and 
out of time, suddenly appearing out of 
nowhere or vanishing when struck.

Jumping Plants- Another relatively harmless kind of being. Many plants 
are able to move through time, and use this both to get as much sunlight 
as possible and to avoid herbivores. When the sun is clouded, the weather 
is going to become too dry or the plant is in shadow, it will move 
forward into time until conditions are good again, and it will vanish 
when someone tries to eat it or hurt it. Sometimes whole fields or groves 
just vanish, only to reappear later. 

Waiting Rabbits- These small creatures look somewhat like very small 
rabbits although they spend most of their time sitting around waiting. 
They are able to snatch beings out of the timestream, especially Jumping 
Plants, and spend most of their time waiting for something to pass. They 
can make long jumps in time and space, and when scared they just vanish. 
They also have the irritating habit of snatching passing things 
regardless of what they are and hiding them in their burrows. 

Timespiders- These large spiders build elaborate four-dimensional nets, 
catching small animals moving through spacetime into their region. They 
look like a Picasso rendition of a spider, constantly shifting in 
perspective and surrounding by a strange net which seems to grow from 
nothing, expand to a size of a few meters and then shrink and vanish as 
'now' moves past it. Time mosquitos, young waiting rabbits and birds 
suddenly find themselves trapped in the net and eaten by the spider.

----------------------------------------
Eating Balls- A spherical creature, when young not unlike a tribblefrom 
Star Trek, but its adult form is a big, shaggy ball which rolls,jumps and 
teleports so that something moving through time will get trapped inside 
their specially adapted digestive systems (they don't need any mouth). 
They are omnivorous, and eat time mosquitos, jumping plants, waiting 
rabbits and careless chrononauts...

Snatchers- Snatchers look like packs of wolves with strangely iridiscent 
fur (actually, the effect is quite similar to Timestone) and unusually 
big mouths filled with fangs which reflect light in a distinctly odd way. 
Snatcher packs roam Nexus, and find places close to virtuals where they 
gather together, chew a hole through reality into a virtual, and snatch 
away their food. From inside the Virtual the event looks just like the 
victim vanishes into thin air, possibly leaving a bloodstain. These 
beings are behind many unexpected disappearances, and their ability to 
chew through the walls of reality is very worrying...



