Date: Fri, 18 Nov 1994 13:26:15 -0600
From: ckobar@dttus.com
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Subject: Aurelius' Crossover Rules, Part I
Message-ID: <eccf3ea0@relay.dttus.com>

     *********** AURELIUS' CROSSOVER RULES ***********
     
        In the past, many World of Darkness chronicles were focused solely 
     upon one of the various White Wolf games, and as such, found no real 
     need for crossover rules.  If a group played Vampire: the Masquerade, 
     for example, the inclusion of a lupine in a story would be handled by 
     the rules as given, with stats and abilities of the lupine given in 
     terms of V:tM.  This worked, in general, especially if the lupine, 
     mage, or whatever was not to be a very important part of the 
     ongoing chronicle.  This method allowed these "other" beings to remain 
     quite a mystery to the players (and the ST!), to some degree enhancing 
     them by ensuring that the vampires "saw" them in terms of themselves, 
     not being able to understand the truly fundamental differences between 
     them.  From a Storyteller's view, this is both good and bad.  As more 
     information about the other games became available, however, it was no 
     longer possible to simply overlook these fundamental distinctions, at 
     least if one wished to truly incorporate them into a meaningful and 
     serious chronicle.  The time came to grab the bull by the horns.
     
        Most ST's now own at least a couple different WW games (or at least 
     the initial rulebooks).  This has resulted in the ST's having a much 
     better understanding of the differences between the denizens of 
     darkness and has given us a wealth of new ideas and story concepts to 
     play around with.  It has allowed a much more fascinating and vibrant 
     chronicle overall, one in which a lupine is no longer simply a big 
     furry fighting machine, but a spiritually focused champion of Mother 
     Earth.  Mages are no longer just "very dangerous and mysterious 
     wizards", but rather very unique and embattled reality benders 
     fighting their own fight for enlightenment of the masses.  This is 
     good and should be done.  By using the Mage rules for mages and the 
     Vampire rules for vampires, these beings special traits and abilities 
     can be best explored.  For how can the true power of the understanding 
     of the Sphere of Entropy be rightfully understood from a vampire's or 
     Garou's point of view.  It cannot be justly explained in terms of a 
     Discipline or Gift, and to do so would be to deny the mage that which 
     is so basic to them that without it they are nothing.
     
        For the most part, it should be the case that a cohesive and 
     balanced World of Darkness chronicle, incorporating many different 
     kinds of supernatural beings, can be run without having to resort to 
     too many crossover rules.  When a mage works magick, it is no problem 
     to use those rules which deal with such.  When a vampire is faced with 
     fire, refer to the section on the Roetschreck.  If a wraith attempts 
     to "skinride", use those rules specifically dealing with the 
     appropriate Arcanos.  Most of a story need not refer to any crossover 
     rules, as it is only on infrequent occasion that the different 
     supernaturals should have much contact anyway.
     
        The times will eventually come, however, when a few vampire 
     characters encounter a Hermetic mage out for a midnight stroll in 
     order to clear his head and try once again to figure out how the fifth 
     root removed of the Tree of Ashes would allow primal transference to 
     occur between the signs of Gelph and Fulstayr, since no direct 
     correspondence exists between the abstract ephemera.  Or it will 
     finally come to pass that the curious Nosferatu neonate can no longer 
     resist the temptation to reopen the plugged up tunnel deep within the 
     warren, only to discover in the steaming green, slime covered caverns 
     beyond a band of gibbering and insanely gyrating half-dog, 
     half-mutated human creatures, moving in dizzying spirals about a 
     bubbling pit of phosphorescent black sludge.  Yes, it is at times like 
     these when crossover rules are called for.
     
        To accomodate the yammering and whining WoD enthusiasts that we 
     are, the powers that be released the "official crossover rules" in the 
     appendix of Chaos Factor.  Bravo, I say.  Though there may be some 
     confusion and difficulty and even imbalances that must be addressed, 
     what was handed down to us from Stone Mountain was at least a firm 
     beginning that began to finally bring some consistency (at least in a 
     mechanical sense) to the various WW games.
     
     The Problems
     
        Yes, there are the problems.  But instead of screaming "White Wolf 
     hates mages!" or something similar, it is far more constructive, both 
     for you as a consumer and a player or ST, to instead find out just 
     what can be done to work out the kinks and end up with a very workable 
     and enjoyable system.  Here are the problems which exist with the 
     "official crossover rules" and/or exist aside from the rules as 
     regards crossovers:
     
     1. According to the table of comparative Ranks, a mage can never be 
     ranked higher than 5, while vampires can (and it is likely possible 
     that wraiths and perphaps even Garou can too).  This means that a good 
     deal of the time, a mage will easily lose in a direct conflict of 
     powers with another supernatural.
     
     2. The very idea that by simply "outranking" another's powers one can 
     completely overcome another is ludicrous.  Sure, it makes the 
     mechanics simple, but sometimes speed of play is not a worthwhile 
     achievement when so much fairness and balance is lost.
     
     3. In reference to what it takes (in the way of Spheres) for a mage to 
     "affect" vampires and wraiths, not only is the word "affect" 
     misleading and vague, but the very explanation itself only serves to 
     confuse and frustrate mage players.
     
     4. Magick in iteself appears to have been "de-powered" to the point 
     where it becomes nearly impossible to do anything to a foe who can 
     simply "resist" with his Willpower, easily obtaining enough successes 
     to cancel out most effects right off the bat.
     
     5. References made concerning Coincidental magickal attacks and how 
     they may be "dodged" appears to further impinge upon supposedly 
     "powerful mages".
     
     6. Mage players at times try to circumvent their characters' 
     limitations by having coincidences actually be more beneficial than 
     the effect the character is capable of actually producing, therby 
     making obsolete the very Spheres themselves.
     
        I'd like to state for the record that as ST, I have been perceived 
     by my mage player as being very biased AGAINST mages, so what I have 
     stated above does not stem from a sympathy for mages over the other 
     WoD creatures, but simply from my own experiences running a number of 
     different encounters with all the assorted beings and trying out many 
     different systems for creating some kind of balance.
     
     Solutions
     
        What follows are my solutions to the problems outlined above.  They 
     are intended to rectify those problems and allow a smooth and 
     atmospherically-appropriate game to be run in which any of the 
     various supernatural beings can interact and retain the "official" 
     relationships as stated in the basic rulebooks for the various games.  
     In other words, mages would be very dangerous in the eyes of 
     the vampires, as would be the lupines.  Vampires would still be 
     dangerous to mages, but their sheer numbers relative to the mages 
     would be counterbalanced by the fact that in the end, a vampire plays 
     real-world games, while a mage plays games with the real world!
     
     When to use Crossover Rules
     
        In most instances, no special rules are needed to resolve a 
     situation.  Simply use whatever rules were written for that specific 
     being/situation.  The only times that crossover rules are needed is 
     when there is some "supernatural" conflict between two or more 
     different beings that normally fall under their own separate rules 
     systems.  This should be obvious.
     
        Conflicts usually arise because one supernatural is trying to use a 
     special power against another supernatural.  A Garou calls upon the 
     spirits to Jam Technology so as to screw up the laptop that the 
     Virtual Adept is attempting to use.  A Verbena performs a powerful 
     ritual intended to blind a vampire across town.  A Ventrue elder tries 
     to Command the Wearied Mind of the slavering man-wolf that has just 
     entered his antique haven.  These are perfect examples of direct 
     conflicts calling for crossover rules.
     
        Other conflicts are not so direct or obvious.  A Toreador poseur is 
     humiliated at a public art exhibit when his anonymous works are 
     ridiculed by the critics and attempts to draw a Cloak of Shadows about 
     himself so as to fade into the background and leave the place, while a 
     lone mage at the back of the hall watches the gathering in the 
     reflection of a large mirror, his magicks allowing him to see the True 
     Nature of those in the hall so that he can locate a vile fomor that he 
     has been seeking in order to learn the location of a Nephandus.  Does 
     the vampire's Obfuscation hide him from the magickal scrying of the 
     mage?
     
     Ranking Supernatural Powers
     
        In any instance of such conflict, whether direct or indirect, the 
     first thing to do is to rank the respective powers involved.  This 
     Rank is based on the overall ability of the supernatural to command 
     and understand what he or she (or it) is actually doing.  The 
     following should be used:
     
     Vampires:  Use the highest level achieved in the Discipline being      
                employed, regardless of the actual level of the Discipline. 
                If a vampire possesses Dominate 4, but was only employing   
                Command the Wearied Mind, then the Rank would be 4, not     
                one.
     
     Garou:     Use the actual societal rank of the Garou.  This is done    
                because the Garou themselves do not actually perform the    
                Gifts, but simply call upon the spirits to do so for them.  
                Their societal rank, however, approximates not only their   
                social standing, but their understanding of the spirit      
                world and the Gifts of Gaia.
     
     Mage:      Use the mage's Arete rating.  This is a departure from the  
                "official" ruling, but is a much more balanced method of    
                determining Rank.  While the mage's specific understanding  
                of the Sphere being employed is important, it is the mage's 
                overall understanding of the universe itself that allows    
                him or her to truly grasp the relationship between          
                perception and reality.  It also allows mages to rise above 
                a limitation of Rank 5, giving them a realistic standing    
                relative to other beings.
     
     Wraith:    As vampires, though using the highest level of the Arcanos  
                employed instead of Discipline.
     
        Now, what to do with Rank?  I have replaced the simple "automatic 
     defeat" method published with the following, much more fair, 
     procedure:
     
     1. Compare the Ranks of the two powers in conflict.  The difference is 
     the Rank Differential.
     
     2. This Rank Differential is applied as a difficulty modifier to the 
     appropriate rolls of BOTH characters, where the higher ranked power 
     would result in a decreased difficulty for that character and the 
     lower ranked would, of course, find the difficulty increased by the 
     same Rank Differential.
     
     3. Both characters/players make their normal rolls for their 
     respective powers.
     
     4. Successes achieved are used to cancel each other out.  Should one 
     party still have at least one success, then that party "wins" the 
     contest.  This "win" may, of course, not mean complete success, that 
     determination left up to the normal ruling for the power in question 
     and the ST.
     
     5. A Botch by either party should INCREASE the successes of the other 
     contestant by ONE.  If both botch, there is a draw.
     
        Special mention must be made in regards to the above.  When a 
     conflict occurs, as in the obfuscated vampire scenario above, where a 
     power should still have some effect on others beside the other 
     supernatural (the mundane folks gathered in the art gallery), the 
     result of the roll PRIOR TO CANCELLING OUT SUCCESSES DUE TO THE 
     CONFLICTING POWER should apply to those not in conflict.  In the above 
     situation, the vampire might have been dicovered by the mage while 
     still remaining obfuscated to the perceptions of the ordinary 
     observers present.
     
        One last note:  Use the above rules for contests ONLY IF NO OTHER 
     RULE IS ALREADY GIVEN.  The Wraith Screen, for example, gives a number 
     of rules for conflicting powers.  Use these before resorting to the 
     above, as they are more specific and take into account much more.
     
     "Resisting" Supernatural Powers
     
        Countermagick and Defensive Magick:  these concepts become very 
     confusing and are often the source of most conflicts between players 
     and Storytellers, especially when mages are involved.
     
        Countermagick refers to any use of a supernatural ability that is 
     capable of nullifying or reducing the effectiveness of another's 
     supernatural power.  The means by which mages counter each 
     others' effects by either "undoing" their opponent's effect or by 
     completely disrupting it with Quintessence is unique to them.  Most 
     other supernaturals don't have that kind of overall understanding of 
     reality to be able to purposely interfere so directly.  The obfuscated 
     vampire scenario is a perfect example of Countermagick.  Aside from 
     that though, most any direct conflict between supernaturals would fall 
     under this heading.  Countermagick is resolved as a normal conflict, 
     unless both powers are of the same kind (Arcanos versus Arcanos) and 
     there is already a pre-existing rule that would apply.
     
        Defensive Magick is simply a flashy term for any attempt to defend 
     one's self from an effect or the realization of an effect.  Sounding 
     an airhorn while a mage is concentrating on producing an effect 
     is a perfect example.  Just as useful is the use of other magick or 
     supernatural abilities to somehow defend against the actual effect.  
     The example used above with the obfuscated vampire and the scrying 
     mage fits under this heading, as do most direct conflicts between 
     supernaturals.  Not all Defensive Magick must be in the form of an 
     actual conflict, though.  A mage might "summon" a speeding car in 
     order to slam into a vampire, hopefully smashing it to death.  
     Because the damage to be done DOES come from a car, the vampire may 
     very simply try to avoid the vehicle by dodging it or something 
     similar.  This may not seem like defensive "magick", but it 
     essentially is, especially when one considers that in the broadest 
     sense, EVERYTHING is magick.
     
        Of importance to remember is the fact that in order to resist any 
     kind of supernatural power one must first have the means to do it.  It 
     is not the case, however, that the one resisting be aware of his 
     resistance, a point which the scenario above well illustrates.  More 
     about these two points will 
     be addressed below.
     
     Awareness and Ability
     
        As already mentioned, one need not be aware that their own 
     supernatural power is in conflict with that of another being.  This 
     usually occurs, as above, when one individual is attempting to 
     perceive something and has a chance to "accidently" detect another 
     supernatural, but this is not always the case.  What is important 
     though, is that mutual awareness not be a prerequisite in 
     every case, although a special exception is made with Mental Powers as 
     will be discussed below.
     
        One must possess the ability to use Countermagick or Defensive 
     Magick, of course, to do so.  It does a mage no good trying to find an 
     obfuscated vampire if he only possesses knowledge of Entropy and Time. 
      Exactly what Disciplines, Spheres, Arcanos and Gifts would coincide 
     is up to the Storyteller, but a consistent framework must be adhered 
     to.  Without such, the game devolves into arguments over fairness and 
     bias.  The booklet included with the Wraith Screen gives some 
     excellent guidelines for how all these things would compare and I 
     recommend it as a starting point at the very least.  Another strong 
     recommendation I make is to decide exactly what magickal Spheres a 
     particular thing would fall under.  This area is a source of great 
     debate and has caused far too much needless bickering.  I have settled 
     upon the following guidelines that follow.
     


     Turning Vampires into Lawnchairs 
     (Or, what Spheres do I need to hurt someone?)
     
        Alright.  To settle this once and for all requires certain 
     decisions to be made that will not change as the game goes on.  By 
     adopting the following, it is very simple to determine what "affects" 
     who and eliminates any further problems that might arise concerning 
     this issue:
     
     1. The Spheres of magick are NOT subjective FROM A STORYTELLER'S 
     VIEWPOINT.  This is the most crucial thing to understand.  Let the 
     players and their characters perceive the Spheres to be any damned 
     thing they want, especially if it improves the story atmosphere.  
     Who cares if the Celestial Choruser believes there is only one Sphere? 
      From a story perspective, that works just fine, actually.  BUT, for a 
     Storyteller to try and allow Spheres to actually be capable of 
     completely different things in a game mechanics sense is plain stupid. 
      
        Not only does it require continual judgement calls every time a 
     certain effect is desired, but it will necessarily result in the final 
     determination of what can and cannot be done becoming a matter of 
     consensus between players and the ST, drastically slowing down the 
     game and frequently disrupting an otherwise interesting story.  By 
     having the ST determine an absolute limit for each Sphere, the ST need 
     only glance down at the player's sheet to figure out whether or not a 
     certain effect can be done.  The player can go on thinking that his 
     character summoned the spirit of a demon to sever the chandelier 
     chain, while the ST actually refers to the character's level in Matter 
     or Entropy.  The demon spirit is for the character and the story.  
     The Spheres on paper are for the ST and the mechanical rules.
     
     2. Determine EXACTLY what the essential makeup of mortals, wraiths, 
     Garou and yes, vampires is.  Then, DO NOT DEVIATE.  I, believe it or 
     not, use the rules as printed in the Wraith Screen, with only minor 
     clarifications.  They are:
      
     Normal human:     Everything is considered LIFE, except perhaps hair   
                        and nails (MATTER)
      
     Mage:             Normal human, folks.
      
     Garou:            Normal human (or wolf, or whatever).
      
     Vampire:          Composed entirely of MATTER, BUT infused with and    
                        given undead status by their accursed vitae (LIFE).
      
     Wraith:           When materialized, they are as normal humans.  When  
                        in the Shadowlands, 
                        they are composed of corpus, which is PRIME infused 
                        with ENTROPY.
      
     SPECIAL:           Every being is also possessed (not composed) of a   
                        SPIRIT and a MIND.  See below, however for how to   
                        treat these things.
     
        Now, what does this all mean?  It means that a mage may do whatever 
     he or she is damned well capable of doing, so long as they possess the 
     requisite knowledge of the Sphere necessary to manipulate ("affect") a 
     particular being or a certain part of that being.
     
        For example:  If a mage wishes to fuse a vampires arms and legs 
     together so that he is more of an eel than a four-limbed creature, 
     such magicks would NOT require any knowledge of LIFE.  The only 
     knowledge necessary would be MATTER, since NOTHING WAS DONE TO THAT 
     PART OF THE VAMPIRE COMPRISED OF LIFE.  Get it?
     
        Now, while the above effect might surely hinder the undead fiend, 
     it would no way directly result in injury to the vampire.  Sure, he 
     may not be able to move around much, but since his vitae -- that stuff 
     that ensures that he is a vampire and not a rotting corpse -- is 
     considered LIFE (it has Quintessence flowing through it), it is not 
     affected in any way by the MATTER effect.  The vampire is no closer to 
     Final Death simply due to the effect, although the repercussions of 
     being so physically altered may indeed eventually result in such an 
     outcome.
     
        On the other hand, if the mage used LIFE magicks instead, and say, 
     began to cause the vitae to spontaneously mutate, it might very well 
     harm the vampire horribly, perhaps even destroying him.  This would 
     require no understanding of MATTER, though it would probably 
     necessitate that the mage be aware of his target (the vitae itself) in 
     some manner.  (More crafty, the mage could "poison" the blood of a 
     vampire's intended feeding victim!!!)
     
        If a mage wishes to trip, bind, confuse, or burn a vampire, the 
     knowledge of the appropriate Spheres would have to be utilized.  
     ENTROPY, for example, is capable of destroying both Matter 
     and Life at diffent levels and would be a very effective weapon 
     against nearly anthing.
     
        A wraith in the Underworld possesses a corporeal body (Corpus) that 
     is composed of patterned Quintessence and infused (corrupted by?) a 
     high degree of entropic forces.  One could apply knowledge of either 
     PRIME or ENTROPY to do harm to such a being, although a wraith can 
     easily regain Corpus, while entropic damage would be far more 
     severe...
     
     Two Special Cases:  Spirit and Mind
     
        Every being in the World of Darkness is considered to be possessed 
     of both a Spirit and a Mind, however one conceives of them.  Many 
     claim it is the Mind which allows the Spirit to manipulate things on 
     earth.  Whatever the case may be, both are highly important and can be 
     the target of a mage's own manipulations.
     
     SPIRIT
     
        Addressing the first (and some say more important) aspect of the 
     Self, Spirits do not exist in the physical world, for to speak of 
     Spirit one speaks of "actualization", or the state just this side of 
     physical existence.  The Metaphysics of Magick in the Mage rulebook 
     discusses this to some extent, and should be the guideline here.  This 
     would imply that if something is already in existence in the physical 
     world, it is no longer simply actualized, but truly exists and 
     therefore is no longer a thing of Spirit, but of some physical 
     pattern.
     
        A Nexus Crawler, for instance, is a Spirit and to affect via magick 
     would require the use of SPIRIT.  Should that Crawler materialize, 
     however, it is no longer simply an actualized thing, but has now 
     crossed over into real physical existence.  At this point, one could 
     harm it magickally by using LIFE and/or MATTER, as well as perhaps 
     ENTROPY and FORCES and PRIME.  The Sphere of SPIRIT though, would no 
     longer have any use in regards to the foul monster, at least not until 
     it dematerialized and once again became only a spiritual entity 
     versus a physical one.  Should a mage wish to truly destroy a Nexus 
     Crawler forever, he or she would have to not only destroy it 
     physically, but more importantly would have to de-actualize it 
     entirely by attacking it in a spiritual sense.
     
        It may seem contradictory when one considers that a Garou, when 
     "stepping sideways" literally leaves this world and enters the Umbra.  
     This is just another way of saying de-materialize and re-materialize.  
     In the Umbra, the werewolf is not physical (for nothing there CAN be), 
     but is Spirit.  And what about when a werewolf "sees" a mage or other 
     Awakened being in the Penumbra, even though that being is physically 
     on earth at the time?  It seems that here the Garou might really be 
     seeing nothing more than the powerful aura that surrounds all 
     Awakened beings.  This aura is not a Spirit and therfore CANNOT be 
     harmed or in any way directly manipulated, but is rather a reflection 
     of "what" a being truly is, noticeable due to the strength of 
     Avatar(?) of all Awakened beings.  Even mundane mortals possess such 
     auras, but he relative weakness of theirs causes them to literally 
     disappear into the background of the Umbra.
     
        In effect, if a being (or object) has a real, physical 
     manifestation, then that being does not simultaneously exist as a 
     Spirit.  Even in the case of a Fetish, this holds true.  If a Garou 
     has a spear as a Fetish, then that spear does not exist in the Spirit 
     world, but the Spirit that is bound into the spear does.  This is an 
     important distinction.
     
        The primary use of the SPIRIT Sphere, however, is not to damage, 
     but to simply perceive and communicate with those beings that exist 
     only as actualizations, not yet physical bodies.  Such perception and 
     communication allows other magicks (ENTROPY, PRIME, TIME, MIND) to 
     be used on Spirits.
     
     MIND
     
        Perhaps the most troublesome of all Spheres, considering that 
     nearly all supernatural beings possess some mental abilities and 
     everyone, including mundane humans, should seem to have some kind of 
     defense against such direct (though perhaps imperceptable) use of 
     magickal 
     powers.
     
        The following should provide a consistent and fair system that 
     truly supports the assumptions of the World of Darkness:
     
     1. If a mental power is being used against an Awakened being without 
     an appropriate power of its own that ought to provide some special 
     defense (nearly all vampires), then the defender may make a Willpower 
     roll to resist the power SO LONG AS THE VICTIM IS AWARE OF THE POWER'S 
     USE.  The number of success scored by the victim of the power are used 
     to cancel out the number of successes achieved by the attacker.
      
        The difficulty for the Willpower roll is equal to the Rank of the 
     power plus five (Diff = Rank + 5).  
      
        Note:  This is not a typical "contest" as outlined above where 
     respective Ranks are compared to determine an applicable differential 
     for difficulties as Willpower is NOT considered to be a supernatural 
     power and therefore has no Rank.
      
        Some Merits or Flaws might play a role here if the ST deems it 
     justifiable.
     
     2. If a mental power is being used against an ordinary, non-awakened 
     mortal, the same rules apply, BUT the target must spend a point of 
     Willpower in order to be allowed to make the resistance roll.  Some 
     Merits (Iron Will, for example) might allow the mortal to be treated 
     as an Awakened being for purposes of such resistance.
     
     3. If a mental power is used against a being, Awakened or otherwise, 
     that possesses an innate ability of their own that would allow some 
     better defense against such attacks, then that other ability should be 
     used instead.  This is a classic "contest" between two supernatural 
     powers and should be treated as outlined above using respective Ranks 
     of the powers being employed by each contestant.
      
        For example, the player of a certain mage (Mind 2, Arete 4, 
     Willpower 6) would have two choices if his mage wished to defend 
     himself against the domineering commands of the Ventrue ancilla 
     (Domination 4).  The vampire wishes to command the mage to "grovel", 
     something that this mage is not about to stand for.   If the mage 
     wished, he could simply make a Willpower roll with a difficulty of 9, 
     giving him a pool of six dice.  The odds are that he will get  only 
     one success.  At the same time, the vampire would have a difficulty of 
     6 with an unknown pool size.
      
        The mage could instead resist magickally by quickly "super- 
     rationalizing" the command of the vampire.  This would create a Rank 
     Differential of (Arete v. Domination) zero.  The mage would have a 
     difficulty of 5 (coincidental, Fast Cast) and a pool of three dice, 
     while the vampire's difficulty would not change.  The odds would 
     again be that the mage gets two successes, though in this case his 
     potential to get more is reduced due to the decreased dice pool.
      
        The above case is based on a relatively weak mage and a relatively 
     powerful vampire.  If the mage's Arete were any higher, or his 
     Willpower any lower, then it would be increasingly beneficial to rely 
     upon his magickal arts to defend himself instead of his human 
     Willpower.
     
        In nearly all cases, the target of a mental attack or probe must be 
     aware of such in order to defend themself.  A mage possessing MIND 
     magicks is automatically aware of any such intrusions, but for most 
     others, it is often difficult to recognize such mental manipulation 
     unless it is overly blatant (Command the Wearied Mind, for examle).  
     Subliminal commands, telepathic reading and similar invasions are very 
     hard to detect and therefore defend against.  A Perception and 
     Intuition roll could be justified, but most of the time the attack 
     would simply slip by the guard of the target.
     

     Damage:  Normal versus Aggravated
     
        Not to rehash what has already been printed in each rulebook in 
     addition to published crossover rules, but a few final words must be 
     said about damage.
     
        First of all, use the general guidelines in each rulebook for what 
     is and is not aggravated damage.  Not only are these guidelines 
     "official", but they are sufficient.  Secondly, use good judgement.  
     If a mage uses MATTER and LIFE to sever a vampire's head (both 
     required due to the complete disruption of the flow of Quintessence 
     through the vampire's patterns), that is aggravated damage.  
     
        In fact, a good rule of thumb is that ANY severing or removal of a 
     body part results in aggravated damage, as would any injury that was 
     of similarly extreme severity.  One should be cautioned, however, not 
     to simply make the damage aggravated because one imagines how a 
     particular cause of injury might hurt a normal person.  Remember, 
     vampires and such are not normal, and a tractor trailor running one 
     over might do little more than slow him down for a few moments.  Keep 
     these kinds of distinctions in mind.  Even when a player specifically 
     states that his mage intends to cut the vampire in half with magick, 
     this should only actually occur if the damage as figured on the normal 
     chart would result in the destruction of the target.  If this is not 
     hte case, then the actual result would fall short of complete severing 
     of the vampire.  Perhaps his spinal cord and some muscles are still 
     intact, allowing the bloodsucker to live, although he will need some 
     SERIOUS recovery time!
     
        In general, magickal damage is not aggravated unless the effect is 
     conjunctional and the mage possesses knowledge of ALL Spheres 
     necessary to "affect" the target's ENTIRE constitution, OR if a 
     mage expends some Quintessence into the effect to add some "punch", 
     not to lower the difficulty.
     
     Coincidental "Cheating"
     
        This section does not technically fall under the "crossover" 
     category, although it is a problem that, at times, can very easily 
     enable a mage to unbalance the game by seeing just what he can slip 
     past the Storyteller, exploiting the built-in flexibility of the 
     Magick rules themselves.
     
        Sometimes (maybe much of the time), mage players try to "cheat" 
     with coincidental magick.  They do this by claiming to wish for a 
     certain effect which they are sure they can create, and then they give 
     a coincidental explanation that actually is far more beneficial to 
     their character than the announced effect was to be.  This is a tricky 
     area, but it happens and is a troublesome thing.
     
        For example, if a player's character was stranded in the Texas 
     desert and told the ST that he wanted to use MATTER and PRIME to 
     create carbon monoxide, that player might try to explain it 
     coincidentally by saying a car happened to come by.  If this were the 
     case, then the player might actually have slipped on past the ST, 
     since the mage really wanted to have a car come by the whole time so 
     he could hitch a ride.  Here the player gave a coincidence (a car) 
     that was actually the effect he wanted all along, but was unable to do 
     because he did not have the appropriate Sphere.
     
        Now, some may counter this and say "But magick is flexible and not 
     all Spheres will act the same way for each mage."  Hogwash.  Using the 
     "flexible" argument is simply poor lawyering.  In this game, as in 
     any, there must be constants by which all things can be measured.  The 
     Spheres and their ranks are those constants, not whatever creative 
     coincidence the player can think up.  Yes, there should be 
     flexibility, but it should be limited to appearances and creative 
     application of a Sphere's given effects.  Coincidence does not exist 
     as a means of circumventing one's weaknesses, but simply as rational 
     explanatory mechanisms to fend of Paradox Spirits.
     
        As a general rule, I have the player simply tell me the intended 
     effect and then, if there is to be a coincidence, give me the general 
     form of that coincidence (for example, "bullet").  Then, as ST, I 
     describe the actual effect as perceived, basing the extremity of the 
     effect upon the degree of success achieved.  Using the "bullet" 
     example, one success might mean a stray bullet from a drive-
     by shooting (in a city) or from a hunter (wilderness), while four 
     successes might mean a number of police officers firing at the target. 
      
        In other words, don't allow the player to detail the coincidence, 
     but simply have him or her outline the basic form which it will take.  
     The rest is up to you as final arbiter.  This way, balance rests fully 
     in the hands of the Storyteller.
     
        The way I see it anyway, mages are never quite sure exactly what 
     they'll get when they take a few threads of the great Tapestry and 
     reweave them a bit.  All they know is that by tying to previously 
     unrelated threads together in a certain way they will probably get a 
     "bullet" or whatever.  Whatever coincidental "baggage" comes along 
     with that bullet is anybody's guess.  Often, mages are just as 
     surprised at the final outcome of their effect as are others, though 
     they can't complain so long as the actual intended effect does take 
     place.
     
     Conclusion
     
        I regret the length to which I went here to present my crossover 
     rules, but unfortunately the tangle of misunderstandings and vaguaries 
     that have already been floating about for some time now in regards to 
     this issue have necessitated such a degree of depth.  In the end, what 
     I have espoused here is truly a very quick and simple system once all 
     the discussion and examples are removed.  It allows for a fair balance 
     of power between the supernaturals and explains some of the trickier 
     aspects that arise when they interact and come into conflict.
     
        In the end, the game should be fun.  Unfortunately, when a troupe 
     consists of characters of different types of beings, there will 
     ultimately arise dissention over who is being favored and who 
     is being screwed over, not by the ST, but by the very rules 
     themselves.  Fairness must therefore be maintained and I believe that 
     what I have presented here makes an impressive step in that difficult 
     direction.
     
     Aurelius, Dedicated Servant of Fairness and Fun
