From: nyarlathotep@mail.utexas.edu (Nyarlathotep)
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: On the nature of the Diety in the WoD
Date: 7 Jul 1996 06:18:41 GMT
Organization: Callahan's-in-the-Zocolo
NNTP-Posting-Host: slip-10-3.ots.utexas.edu

   I know a few days ago somebody posted a question about the nature of
God in the World of Darkness. I am going to try to answer that question. I
suspect some people will heat up their flame throwers as they did earlier
with my Apocalypse post, but hey this is supposed to be the "World of
Darkness". One important note : I am an agnostic myself, so please do not
read any fundamentalism into this post.
   God. Immortal, Timeless, Omnipotent. And totally alien. In the World of
Darkness God is a kind of Azathoth/Yog-Sothoth combination from CoC.
Completely beyond our mortal comprehension. But he/she/it is also the
embodiment of Static/Dynamic creation. He's kind of the answer to "who
made the 3 W triat".
   But he/she/it is more than that. He is the great cosmic clock maker or
model builder. I mean we have all done this as kids, built models, painted
them put them in diarama's and put them on a shelf to build another. 
   Motivation? Perfection. God attempts to build the perfect machine, and
for the most part he succeeds. The world works. Mankind is truly made in
God's image, and they are even evolving. All you have to do there is look
at the mages (especially the Orphans). The sad part of the World of
Darkness is that it, of course, is imperfect. The rebellion of Lucifer's
Angels was the first sign. Caine's curse was the second. The Death of
Christ (the Milton version of the son) (In the WoD he did die, none of
this risen again stuff. He was made mortal and was killed.) was when God
turned his back on this reality and chalked it up as a lost cause. 
   This in someways could explain Stygia. I myself prefer a Second War in
Heaven, a la The Prophecy, as it adds to the Diety's jaded nature. In both
cases, the Diety closed the doors. Only the perfect can enter, and they
ain't from this reality. 
   I only regret that I haven't read the Celestial Chorus book yet,
otherwise I would see how the above fits into it. As for Werewolf, the
Garou have the best knowledge of the parts to the machine around. They
just haven't found/can't read the "Made in Heaven with Divine Care" label.

-- 
Machine shared by Anne Gwin (agwin@mail.utexas.edu) and Nyarlathotep (nyarlathotep@mail.utexas.edu). Sometimes we forget to change the name on the post.
