From: pfstrack@email.unc.edu (Paul Strack)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller,alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: Mage Demographics 2
Date: 15 Feb 1996 16:56:18 GMT
Organization: University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
NNTP-Posting-Host: login1.email.unc.edu

Mage Demographics 2
 
A month or two ago I posted a general article on various possibilities for
the demographics of Mages.  With some further thought, I've arrived at the
following more exact figures for my version of the world of darkness.  I'm
sure most of you would dispute the numbers I've come up with, and that's
all right; everyone's game is different.  I hope, though, that this
article will give you some ideas of the things one needs to consider when
crunching the numbers for Mage. 
 
 
 
Total Demographics
 
Each of the nine tradition has somewhere between 700 and 900 mages.  
This makes about 7200 Tradition mages total, or roughly 1 Tradition mage 
per 750,000 people.  The Technocracy has about half as many mages as the 
Traditions (3600) and the Nephandi a quarter as many (1800).  The 
Marauders are hard to ennumerate, but should be about an eighth as many 
as the Traditions (900).  There are a quarter as many Orphans as the 
Tradition (1800), including the Crafts, Hollow Ones and the elusive Ahl-
i-Batin.  There is about 1 mage per 350,000 people.
 
 
 
The Traditions
 
Talent:  Apprentices make up roughly 10% of Tradition mages, Disciples 
50%, Adepts 30% and Masters 10%.  The Apprentices will likely be under 
the tutelage of an Adept or Master, while maybe 25% to 50% of Disciples 
are still mentored by a mage of greater power.  Most Masters and many 
Adepts have some sort of student or mentored Disciple.  A few Masters 
and Adepts will specialize in teaching and mentoring, but rarely with 
more than a handful of lesser mages under their charge.  Disciples will 
rarely take on students, unless they are the only mage of a particular 
Tradition that is available.
 
Chantries:  About a quarter of Tradition mages are "independent", not 
connected to any one Chantry.  A "typical" Chantry has between 3 and 5 
Cabals, with between 3 and 5 mages per cabal, or about 15 total members.  
There are about 360 Chantries world-wide.  Roughly a third of Chantries 
are unified or one Tradition chantries.  Another third are mixed, shared 
by two or three Traditions.  The remaining Chantries are open Chantries, 
with members of four or more Traditions.  Each Tradition has about a 
dozen unified Chantries, and another two dozen mixed Chantries (each 
shared with one or two other Traditions).  Each Tradition has members in 
about 30% to 50% of all open Chantries.
 
There is about one Chantry per 15,000,000 people.  Most chantries will 
pick one geographic region as their particular "turf", usually near 
their most powerful node.  Bear in mind that most Chantries have 
interests (and even nodes) in more than one region.  Each area of 15 
million people will have one Chantry "in residence", but will likely 
have two or three other Chantries whose physical location is elsewhere, 
but with an interest in the area.  The outside Chantries may or may not 
be on good terms with the "locals".
 
Most Chantries control one node per Cabal, with an average strength of 2 
or so per node.  Only Chantries with 10 or more total points worth of 
nodes will have a Horizon realm.  This is maybe 40% of all Chantries.  
Most of those Horizon realms will be fairly small: Doissetep class 
Horizon realms should be comparitively rare (maybe 1 per 10 Chantries).
 
Subtraditions:  Each Tradition has about a half dozen "subtraditions" 
with between 20 and 100 members.  These subtraditions make up about 50% 
of a Tradition's membership.  The remaining 50% are more "generic" 
either fitting the mainstream stereotype of the tradition, or belonging 
to subgroups to small to properly be called a subtradition.  Note that 
some subtraditions overlap between more than one Tradition, e.g. the 
Gnostics are an overlap between the Celestial Chorus and the Cult of 
Ecstacy, while there is a Voodoo subtradition that is an overlap between 
the Verbena and the Euthanatos.
 
What is known:  The masters of each Tradition know most of their peers.  
They are familiar with all the subtraditions, and know of the existence 
of nearly all the unified and mixed Chantries associated with the 
Tradition.  They are likely to be familiar with the more important 
members of most other Traditions, the major Chantries and subtraditions.  
The Adept will know most of their Traditions the subtraditions, the most 
important masters and most of the unified Chantries.  They will have 
spottier knowledge of other Traditions, a random percentage of masters, 
Chantries and subtraditions.  Disciple will know even less: masters 
important in their area, Chantries with immediate influence in their 
region, other Traditions and subtraditions that they have crossed paths 
with.  An apprentice will likely know only her master and a few other 
mages, her own Chantry and subtradition, and perhaps the ancestral 
Chantry of her Tradition as well.
 
 
 
Demographics by Region
 
In order for the demographics of the Traditions to work along the lines 
presented in the books, I had to skew the population figures heavily 
toward the western world.  I apologize for the Eurocentric presentation, 
but without creating another two or three oriental Traditions, this is 
the only way I could get it to work.  Even with the figures as skewed as 
they are, India and the Far East loom large on the Mage scene.
 
Europe (600 million people, 80 Chantries):  Europe is the primary home 
of three large Traditions: the Order of Hermes, the Celestial Chorus and 
the Verbena.  It is also the birth place of Technocratic magick, so the 
Sons of Ether and the Virtual Adepts have important strongholds here.  
The Akashics, Dreamspeakers and Euthanatos are comparatively rare.
 
The Former Soviet Union (300 million people, 15 Chantries):  The Former 
Soviet Union has a fairly even mix of Traditions, being on the cross 
roads of several worlds.  Since the fall of the Communists, numerous 
Chantries have come under attack, and many have fallen.  The exact cause 
of this is unknown, though it is widely believed that the Technocracy is 
stepping up the Pogrom in the region.  Travel to and from the spirit 
world in the former Soviet Union is becoming more and more difficult.
 
The Middle East and North Africa (270 million people, 10 Chantries):  
There are comparatively few Chantries in this area, a random smattering 
of holdings.  It is widely believed that the elusive Ahl-i-Batin have 
perhaps a dozen or so hidden Chantries in the region (and a few more 
scattered around the world), and they jealously protect their land.
 
Subsaharan Africa (450 million people, 25 Chantries):  The Dreamspeakers 
are strongest here, with the Verbena a distant second.  Other Traditions 
have a handful of Chantries spread through the continent, largely in 
former European colonies.
 
India and Vicinity (1080 million people, 50 Chantries):  The Euthanatos 
are the ascendant Tradition in India, though there are a good number of 
Akashics, Choristers and Cult of Ecstacy mages as well.
 
Japan and Korea (210 million people, 10 Chantries):  Akashics are 
prevalent here, though there are a good number of Dreamspeakers and 
Virtual Adepts in the region also.
 
China and Vicinity (1200 million people, 60 Chantries):  The Akashics 
call China their home, but there are a good percentage of Euthanatos, 
Dreamspeakers and oriental Hermetics as well.  Strangely enough, many 
Sons of Ether find the area to their liking (remember the fiendish 
inventions of Dr. Fu Manchu).
 
Southeast Asia, Australia and Polynesia (450 million people, 25 
Chantries):  This area has become another cross-road through the 
centuries, as the trading ships of various empires have crossed this 
region.  The area has a reasonably good mix of Traditions.  The Cult of 
Ecstacy finds the port cities of Southeast Asia particularly to their 
liking.
 
South America (300 million people, 20 Chantries):  Dreamspeakers are 
common in the jungles of South America, but Celestial Chorus mages and 
Verbena witches are frequent as well.
 
Mexico, Central America and the West Indies (150 million, 10 Chantries):  
The region is much like South America, but with fewer Dreamspeakers and 
a greater mix of other Traditions.
 
U.S. and Canada (300 million people, 50 Chantries):  North America has a 
fairly even mixes of Traditions, being the melting pot of culture it is.
 
 
 
The Technocracy
 
The Technocracy has about 600 to 800 mages per Convention.  Their level 
of talent has about the same range as the Traditions (10% Apprentice, 
50% Disciple, 30% Adept and 10% Master).  Technocracy Constructs tend to 
be smaller than Tradition Chantries, with 2 to 4 Amalgams and 10 or so 
mages.  Constructs are concentrated in the Western world.  In places 
like the United States and Europe, there are as many Constructs as 
Tradition Chantries, while in places like Africa and Southeast Asia, 
there are one fourth as many Constructs as Tradition Chantries.
 
Note that despite the fact that the Technocracy is outnumbered by the 
Traditions, they have two major advantages that help them keep the edge 
in the Ascension War.  Technomancers work together far better than the 
mages within each Tradition, not even considering the disputes between 
differing Traditions.  Their main advantage is that they have great 
numbers of enhanced minions to protect them and attack their enemies.  
The Technocracy has a huge amount of resources to bring to bear on any 
particular problem, and are experts at marshalling their forces.
 
 
 
The Nephandi
 
The Nephandi tend to be, on average, more talented than Tradition mages.  
This is because their dark masters give them "special help".  They have 
roughly 10% Apprentices, 40% Disciples, 35% Adepts and 15% Masters.  
Their road to power is a quick one, but ultimately doomed.  Many 
Nephandi (50%) reside entirely in the Umbra, making their numbers seem 
smaller than they actually are.  Of those on earth, about 50% are 
independent, not tied to any particular Labyrinth.  Thus, Nephandi 
Labyrinths on Earth are small (about 10 mages) and rare (maybe 50 or so 
on the entire planet).  Labyrinths tend to be secluded as well.
 
The Nephandi do not have tradition per se, but are marked by the demons 
they serve.  About 40% of Nephandi worship infernal forces, while 30% 
are followers of the Wyrm.  A mere 10% serve the creatures of the void, 
alien beings of the Deep Umbra, but such Nephandi tend to have unusual 
power.  Roughly 20% of Nephandi are "freelance", either serving minor 
malevolent forces or doing evil of their own accord, without any master.
 
 
 
The Marauders
 
Marauders have the highest power curve of all mages.  They have very few 
(5%) Apprentices (it's sink or swim amongst the Marauders), maybe 35% 
Disciples, 40% Adepts and 20% Masters.  The high level of power amongst 
the Marauders is to a large degree because many of them were talented 
mages of the Traditions, Technocracy or Nephandi before they went mad.  
Most (75%+) Marauders live in the Umbra; they rarely appear on Earth.  
The few that do tend to be weaker than normal (so that they do not 
attract as much attention or Paradox) and loners.

Marauders can be grouped by their origin.  About 40% of Marauders were 
formerly Tradition mages, 20% Technomancers and 10% Nephandi.  The 
remaining 30% were Orphans, either going mad, or (in about 15% of cases) 
awakening immediately as a Marauder.  Note that this means roughly 4% or 
5% of mages succumb to madness at some point in their career, and become 
Marauders.  The chances increase as a mage grows more powerful.


 
Orphans
 
Orphan mages have the shallowest power curve.  A third of all Orphans 
are loners, not associated with any other mages.  Such Ophans are about 
20% "Apprentices", 60% Disciples, 15% Adepts and 5% Masters.  Note that 
Orphan "Apprentices" are not usually being tutored by another mage; 
rather they are in the first stages of their own personal development.
 
The other two thirds of Orphans are divided up into a dozen or so 
"Crafts", each with between 40 and 120 members.  The Hollow Ones are a 
particularly large Craft with perhaps a couple hundred members.  The 
Ahl-i-Batin, once a Tradition in their own right, can now be properly 
described as a large Craft (again with a couple hundred members).  The 
power curve of the Crafts is a bit better than that of solo Orphans, 
closer to Traditions.  Crafts will have a few Chantries of their own, 
and a few will associate with Tradition Chantries as well.
 
 
 
Hedge Mages
 
No description of mage demographics would be complete without first 
considering Hedge Mages.  Hedge Mages are much more common than True 
Mages.  Hedge Mages of respectible power (such as those described in 
Ascensions Right Hand) number perhaps 1 per 100,000 people.  In more 
"primitive" societies, Hedge Mages are more common, as frequent as 1 per 
10,000 people.  Most of Hedge Mages (66%) are independent loners or 
gather in small groups.  These Hedge Mages have little awareness of the 
rest of the supernatural world.
 
There are a number of Hedge Traditions as well, but most of them are 
quite small, with between 20 and 100 current members.  There are several 
hundred such Traditions, and not a few of them are completely ignorant 
of each other and the rest of the supernatural world.  Most such Hedge 
Traditions, however, are at least aware of a handful other related or 
opposed Hedge Traditions, with whom they interact.  Hedge Traditions 
tend to be fairly limited geographically, with most of their members 
living in one particular part of the world.
 
Perhaps 5% of all Hedge Traditions are directly associated with one or 
more of the True Mage Traditions, working as custos and having a greater 
awareness of the Ascension war.  Most Traditions have one or two such 
associated Hedge Traditions.  A good percentage of Hedge Mage custos 
come from such associated Traditions.  There are Hedge Traditions 
associated with the Nephandi as well, though the Nephandi are also fond 
of finding and corrupting individual Hedge Mages.


-- 
Paul Strack            |  Madness takes its toll.
pfstrack@email.unc.edu |  Please have exact change.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Web Page - http://www.math.unc.edu/Grads/pfstrack/wod.html
