From server@wizards.com Tue Oct 19 05:27:44 1993
Received: from walker.u.washington.edu by mail.nada.kth.se (5.61-bind 1.4+ida/nada-mx-1.0)
	id AA25021; Tue, 19 Oct 93 05:27:42 +0100
Received: from ginkgo.omnigroup.com by walker.u.washington.edu
	(5.65/UW-NDC Revision: 2.29 ) id AA25236; Mon, 18 Oct 93 21:24:44 -0700
Received: from tapir.wizards.com by omnigroup.com (NX5.67d/NX3.0M)
	id AA05492; Mon, 18 Oct 93 21:24:40 -0700
Received: by wizards.com (NX5.67d/NX3.0M)
	id AA10031; Mon, 18 Oct 93 21:24:39 -0700
Date: Mon, 18 Oct 93 21:24:39 -0700
Message-Id: <9310181923.AA13602@netcom5.netcom.com>
Comment: Mailing list for "Mage: the Ascension"
Originator: mage-l@wizards.com
Errors-To: netsec@wizards.com
Reply-To: mage-l@wizards.com
Sender: mage-l@wizards.com
Version: 5.5 -- Copyright (c) 1991/92, Anastasios Kotsikonas
From: jsnead@netcom.com (John R. Snead)
To: Multiple recipients of list <mage-l@wizards.com>
Subject: Some ideas for/about mage
Status: RO

Hi folks, I just heard about, and subscribed to the list.
Well, first off, the question of healing in Mage is an
interesting one.  Given the rules, No Mage can start with the
ability to heal others, and you need Life 3 to heal yourself,
so, Mages are MUCH more vulnerable to damage than Kindred or
Garou, who have healing as one of their primary abilities.
I've found you have to play Mages much more cautiously than
either of the others.  Oh, also, here is a proposal for a
Mage supplement my co-author and I sent to White Wolf a while
back.  (No word form them yet, but they liked our previous
stuff, so hopefully it was not sent in vain).  Anyway, now
that I have access to lots of other intersted folks, any
ideas, flames, feedback or wahtever on it....
    The purpose of the book would be to describe a class of
spirit is associated directly with the life of human beings
through their desires, thoughts, and dreams.  Many of these
spirits would be Hobgoblins produced by Mages in Quiet.
Others would be Hobgoblins produced accidentally by untrained
Orphan Mages.  Some of these Hobgoblins achieve a fully
independant existance, some outlast their creators.  Mortals
have many names for these spirits: incubi, succubi,
doppelgangers.  The general term we would use, and the
working title of the book, would be "Daemon".
    Daemons would fall into one of three categories.  The
first are the creations of artists:  writers, painters,
musicians, many would be the creations of Mages of the Cult
of Ecstasy.  These daemons feed on the energy of creativity
and art.  An artist of unusual ability who has an Awakened
Avatar may generate an extraordinarily compelling,
"realistic" character.  If given enough spiritual energy
(from the artist, or possibly from fans of the artist or the
character), the character may become real and enter the
mortal world.  The second category are doubles of human
beings. These feed on the energy of wishes and daydreams.
They may be seperately created Hobgoblins which for some
reason attach themselves to certain mortals, or certain
mortals with partially Awakened Avatars may have the power to
generate a spiritual double of themselves.  The doubles
originally exist independently of their human hosts, who may
not be aware of them.  Doubles act out the dreams of their
hosts, doing things their hosts are afraid to do or would
like to do but cannot.  Eventually, the host usually becomes
aware of the double's existence, and the two may integrate
into a single being with powers and characteristics of both
the double and the host.  The third category are incubi and
succubi.  Incubi and succubi feed on the energy of sex and
desire.  Once again, Mages of the Cult of Ecstasy are often
their creators.  These spirits respond to mortals whose needs
(not merely sexual) are not met by their fellow human beings.
Such a spirit becomes the living fantasy of their mortal
host:  the demon lover, the perfect parent, the invisible
friend, the mysterious teacher.  Incubi/succubi (one spirit
may take both male and female forms) may take solid form and
produce children in association with a mortal.  These
children are half-human, half-spirit, and have unique
abilities and limitations of their own.
    The proposed book would include types of spirit suitable
for use as player characters as well as types only
appropriate as non-player characters.  The book would be
divided into descriptive material on the daemons, complete
rules for generating and running daemon characters, including
new supernatural abilities, limits, and methods of gaining
and losing spiritual energy (all daemons feed on the energy
of creation just as vampires feed on blood-the rules would be
similar), adventure seeds, and a sample scenario.  The
scenario is a mystery/horror adventure involving the player
characters in an isolated location where, unknown to them, a
very unusual spirit is reaching for a place in the mortal
world.
Thanks everyone, take care -John
 
