-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEMON : THE TEMPTATION

Disclaimer

This work is intended for adult readers, due to themes expressed herein. No liability is accepted for events caused by reading 
by younger readers. This material may offend some, dealing as it does with elements of the supernatural, and religion. This 
work is viewed as 'Religious Fiction.' Please, no flames to the author (especially not hellflames, huh?)

'A World Of Darkness', 'Storyteller' and 'Storyteller System' are trademarks licensed to White Wolf Limited. No infringement 
or dispute of copyright is intended, so don't sue me (as if I had any money anyway...)

This material is copyrighted to the author. Permission is given to distribute this document in electronic or printed form, but 
not for personal gain. 
NO PROFIT MUST BE MADE FROM THIS WORK.





		"Come in." The voice was crisp and carried a note of authority. A young man of about thirty walked into the room. 
His eyes took in everything with tiny glances back and forth. His body was held rigid, and he was dressed simply in gray 
slacks and shirt. He was obviously ill at ease.
		"Martin, isn't it?" The speaker was taller and older. He sat behind a spartan desk, devoid of office toys and carrying 
a simple pen tidy. He motioned for the younger to sit. "Yes"
"Now I want you to know that this is an informal conversation, but the consequences of it could well be very serious."
"I understand."
"Good. I hope we can get to the bottom of the matter with as little fuss as possible."
		The young man's face grew slack, he was sweating lightly. He opened his mouth, then shut it again. Then he 
looked at his interrogator, fear now beginning to show in his eyes. "I did it - what they said I did." The older man shifted 
slightly in his seat. "Do you understand what you are saying, Martin?" he asked quietly. Martin nodded, looking all the while 
at the table. "By admitting your guilt, you will throw away everything you have trained for, and condemn yourself to a certain 
jail sentence. This will not be taken lightly by my superiors in this diocese."
"I know," Martin's face was still, his eyes still locked on one spot on the table. "Father, I have never been a..." his voice trailed 
off. He took a breath and began again: "paedophile. I had a girlfriend in college, but nothing like this..." Martin shuddered 
slightly, giving the elder priest a chance to speak. "Martin, to be honest, this kind of thing is killing the image of the clergy. 
Nobody can worship when they even slightly suspect that their local parish priest could possibly commit something like - "
"I know." Martin's eyes now locked with the other's. "You don't understand, Father Harrison. You never saw  him. He was so 
beautiful. His eyes were like the eyes of a faithful dog. They would watch me when I gave sermons. They would stay on me 
for the whole service, and only when it was over would they be torn from me." His voice grew stronger, more angry than 
anything else.
		"It started when he came to confession one day. He'd never been to confession, you know. He was just as confused 
as I was at the start. All he said to me was 'Father Casey, I love you.'"
"And you gleefully jumped into bed with him." Behind the words lay a world of hate and disgust. Martin narrowed his eyes at 
the insult. "It wasn't like that. I tried to be on his side. I thought he must have had trouble at home, or something like that. He 
lived at an orphanage, and just came to church because he believed. His faith is so strong." Martin's face clouded slightly. 
"*Was* so strong."
"Did you murder him?" Harrison asked. Martin's fists clenched; color rose in his cheeks as he blurted out - "NO!" He calmed 
slightly, then spoke again. "I must have been responsible for his suicide. How could I have known what he felt? I couldn't 
have known he'd kill himself." He looked for guidance, eyes aglitter with tears, "could I?"
		Martin Casey's eyes closed, and he felt the yawning of an abyss below him, ready to swallow his guilt, ridicule 
him, degrade him, and incarcerate him forever. The voice spoke, the youthful timbre startling him from his reverie. "Martin? 
Martin are you there?"
"Kevin? Kevin is that you?" The response was spoken aloud. Father Harrison started "Are you speaking to me?"
"Martin, I'll always love you - You know how you can join me... We'll be together, and they can't hurt you any more." Martin 
smiled at Father Harrison. "Don't worry, I'll make a full confession. There won't be anything messy." Somehow  he didn't 
think it would last that long.

...Elsewhere, elsewhen, elsewise; a semblance of a face passed a semblance of a smile. A young boy's voice spoke amid horror 
beyond comprehension with all feeling replaced by sarcasm - "I love you Martin. We'll be together soon won't we?"


CHAPTER ONE - The Lore.
Introduction.
		There exists more in the World Of Darkness  than many of its denizens would believe. The Garou and some mages 
have spiritual belief in the Triat; the Wyrm, Wyld and Weaver. However, others, notably most mortals believe in a God over 
all, and in the power of good and evil. Many of the dead depart for the Shadowlands, but these poor unfortunates are those 
who have left unfinished business in the Realm, and hang in some sort of limbo.
		What, then, of those who do not go to the Shadowlands on death? Simply put, mortals have the truth. Mortals who 
have been essentially 'good' during their lifetime are allotted a place in Paradise, and the others are taken to the Inferno. This 
work centres on those who have Fallen, and their relationship to the rest of the World Of Darkness (If there's enough demand, 
I'd be happy to do 'Angel: The Salvation', but this is more fun, don'tcha think?)
		Upon death, the cadaver's essence leaves the body. It either 'ascends' to Paradise, or departs on foot for the 
Shadowlands, or is dragged away screaming to the Inferno. This process is visible in the Umbra, to those watching. At this 
conjuncture, a spirit may be delayed by magic, disciplines or gifts. After a spirit has reached its final resting place, it can only 
be caused to return if it is in the Shadowlands. Souls and spirits in Heaven and Hell are unreachable to those in the Realm.
		The denizens of the Inferno refer to themselves collectively as the Horde. Their immediate counterparts in Paradise 
are the Host, and everyone else is part of the Flock. The Flock includes all manner of ordinary mortals, the werelings and 
mages as well as those with greater lifespans, such as vampires. Even the wraiths of the Shadowlands are counted as part of 
the Flock.
				
Demonic Life
		When considering the Horde and their affairs, one must almost totally disregard the mortal world as a whole. The
Inferno is an entity in its own right, and is not under the sway of the mortal world in the same way that the Shadowlands, or 
even the Umbra are. Similarly, the Inferno's residents are removed quite seriously from mortals.
		The Inferno appears differently depending on who views it. For a damned soul, it is the worst, most blasphemous 
atrocity possible. This horror continues without day or night for years, decades, centuries, without ever stopping. There are 
those, however, who become numb to the horror, slowly acclimatising to the hurt. Hell changes slightly for these few, who are 
untormentable in the long term. Slowly they begin to see the seams of the Netherworld, and the overlapping portions of 
others' nightmares. These few become Demons. They are removed from their torture, and given leeway in the Realm to do the 
bidding of the underworld. This does not mean that they cease to be tortured. Becoming a demon is worse than any torture 
possible. A demon is forced to serve his Infernal masters, with no hope of escape. He is given leeway in his endeavours, but 
no true freedom. Is it any wonder then that the demons of legend, the true masters of the Abyss have lost every vestige of 
humanity they had, and become vile creatures of nightmare?
		A demon of the Inferno can be seen as a force not just for chaos, but for pure evil. He exists to tempt others out of 
their spiritual possessions. Many demons, notably those of more experience will also fulfil mortal desires in the Realm in a 
desperate attempt to become what they once were. Unfortunately for the Flock, these desires have become warped and 
perverse. A demon may revel in the return of his physical body, only to use it for unspeakable orgies of want. A demon whose 
hobby in mortal life was socialising will turn into a socialite without compare, at the cost of dragging all of his/her 'friends' 
into the pit that spawned him. Picture the nightmare of having one's wife return from the dead with new and hellish desires. 
A demon can never enjoy what he enjoyed as a mortal, but has a constant craving for these things. The demon's jealousy of 
mortals grows and grows, and as it does so, his ability to enjoy mortal life lessens and lessens, slowly burning the demon up 
from within. This process is called the Cycle Of Iniquity. Once there is even a tiny trace of evil in the character he is doomed to 
become unspeakably so. The only personality that could escape such horror is that of a saint. A saint would never be in hell to 
begin with...
		Not all demons begin their existences as sinners trapped in the bowels of the abyss. Others of their number are 
spawned directly from the chaos. These horrors are known generically as 'Fiends' to all. Generally speaking, Fiends are, from 
conception, similar in behaviour to the late stages of 'standard' demonhood. They are chaotic, vile and unspeakable; preferring 
destruction and immorality above all other hobbies. They often have difficulty with human customs and standards, most 
notably with technology. No fiend can ever truly understand a technological device, and most even fear these creations.  
These creatures, though subservient to the demonic chains of command, as all other demons, believe they are different. A 
legend runs through their ranks that they were the first created race upon the planet, before Adam and Eve, before animals 
and birds. They were purely evil, and rebelled instantly against The Creator. He was appalled by his handiwork, and 
banished the brutes to the Inferno forever, not to be seen by mortal eyes. Whether or not this is true is unknown.  Fiends are 
better used as NPCs, due to their alien natures, but can be used as PCs by adventurous players, after discussion with their 
Storytellers.
		Scholars among the Host have suspected that the Horde could overrun Paradise by sheer weight of numbers if not 
for one thing. All demons hate their masters. No demon is content to serve. All wish for mastery over all other demons. 
Therefore, occasionally, orders will be altered subtly from master to servant. "Bring me the leader of the Tremere chantry" is a 
bad order, since a servile imp may return with the leader dead, in no  condition to be tempted. Instead of stamping this 
practice out, the rulers of the Inferno actively encourage it, and promote demons who practise it.

The Codex.
		The Horde organises itself loosely in some areas, and rigidly in others. A contrast to the total dictatorial chaos of 
Infernal organisation is the rigid structure of the Codex. The Codex has been active since the Fall, and has never changed, 
even slightly, over the infinity that followed until the present day. The fact that the Codex has never been broken is attributed 
to 'Those Who Watch' who have sway even over the rulers of the Inferno. They are the targets of much speculation by the 
Horde. Are they Angels? Demons? Super-Powerful humans, or something much worse? The simple fact is that demons who 
break the Codex disappear. Frequently, they will be seen once before this, staring into space, driven into some strange 
madness. Since demons rarely suffer from derangements themselves, it is thought that these Watchers must have enormous 
power.
		Strangely, whispers and rumours are heard through the Inferno, of demons who have escaped their eternal 
enslavement. Demons who have broken the Codex, and escaped. These 'escapees' are called the Despoilers, and are only seen 
once in a millennia. Rumours abound as to their purpose.
		Storytellers should feel free to use Those Who Watch to prevent player characters from running wild. Having a 
comrade disappear can really put the fear of God into the rest of the troupe. Here follow  all six articles of the Infernal Codex :

Article One.
Thou shalt not reveal thy existance to a member of the flock by invoking thy true form, using thy bestowals, or by telling of 
your kind. The exception to this shall be when thou art forming compact with that member of the Flock.

Article Two.
Thou shalt collect souls. The demon who does not collect souls shall be a failure in the eyes of Beelzebub and returned to the 
Inferno forthwith.

Article Three.
Thou shalt not kill mortals with which a compact has been made in order to collect their souls. Such conduct is not 
permissable, and will tarnish the good reputation of the Inferno.

Article Four.
Thou shalt be honest with thine compacted mortals. Protect them from serious harm lest they be dissatisfied with their 
treatment. Never extract a compact from a mortal by force.

Article Five.
Obey thine elders. Exception to this may be made, and a tribunal may be brought by the General of the house to which the 
complainant belongs.

Article Six.
Thou shalt never lay a hand of violence on those of the Host.

Politics and History of the Inferno.
		As legend, popular literature and the Bible would have it, the Inferno was first populated by a number of 'Fallen 
Angels' headed by Lucifer Morningstar, who would become the mythical Devil. The truth, as always, is similar, yet removed 
from the myth. Indeed, angels fell from Paradise, and one of them was called Lucifer. However, they found the Inferno 
populated by the Fiends, jabbering and committing atrocities in the depths. The angels, greater by far in power, bested the 
Fiends, and eventually became their masters. Lucifer took one of their number (a genius in Fiend terms) as his second-in-
command, and named him Beelzebub. The Fallen and their proteges built a citadel from the natural elements, and called it 
Pandemonium.
		When the citadel was complete, Lucifer used it as a focal point to begin the organisation of his minions in order to 
conquer Paradise. He used Fiends and fallen angels alike as 'Dukes' and 'Generals' over less powerful imps and fiends. Almost 
all of the Inferno was organised into 'houses' each of which was ruled by a different General. Then he used a portion of his 
divine power to give his minions power, in the form of the bestowals. There were seven of these supernatural powers : 
Appellation, Endow, Ravage, Rending, Revolt, Torment and Wrack.
		In order to understand fully the resources at his disposal, Lucifer travelled alone to the Realm. There he saw what 
his Father had wrought: A world where Adam and Eve lived in blissful innocence amid the paradise that was Eden. He was 
enraged by the fact that these mortals were given more than he, an ex-angel, was and resolved to corrupt them. He took the 
form of a serpent to disguise his nature and began his work. The rest of the tale is well-known amongst Flock, Host and 
Horde. Unfortunately, in tempting the first couple, Lucifer opened himself to the Cycle of Iniquity. He returned to the Inferno, 
swearing that from hence all demons would corrupt the Flock, and pervert the Creator's works to the highest possible degree. 
Many fiends disagreed, preferring instead to wage war against Paradise. Lucifer explained that this was how Paradise was to 
be defeated. When all mortals were corrupted, they could begin the unholy war to end all wars.
		Complete records of the abyss are rare, and much of the history of that realm is lost to the eyes of all historians. 
However, it is known that the Horde, under the leadership of Lucifer prospered, and had all but succeeded in their mission to 
corrupt the Flock entirely. Then the Host stepped in, organising an effective genocide of the human race, in the Great Deluge. 
They started mortal life over again, with Noah's voyagers as stock. Lucifer was crushed by this. He began to realise that he 
was doomed to fail in his mission, so he left the Inferno. He retired to solitude, in secret contemplation of how he could finally 
destroy his divine counterparts.
		Following this, Beelzebub took control of the Inferno. He waited a few centuries, then slew or banished many, if 
not all of the fallen Angels who had accompanied Lucifer from Paradise. This was intended to draw Lucifer out of hiding, 
since Beelzebub believed himself to be more powerful. Lucifer never reappeared. Beelzebub declared his old master a coward, 
and took his throne. He has ruled the Inferno since, forcing the Generals of the Houses to swear obediance to him.
		The rule of a Fiend has been both good and bad for the Inferno. Beelzebub has the wisdom to know when he is on 
to a good thing, and hates the Creator as much as Lucifer. He continues to wage war on the Flock, and uses many of the same 
tactics as his old Master. However, his organisational skills are poor. He is not much of a leader, and rules by sheer power 
rather than leadership skill. However, his power level is sufficient to annihilate all but the most puissant of assailants. He 
squats in the upper levels of Pandemonium, surrounded by his toadying minions, overseeing all.
		There are still those who believe Lucifer is still alive, somewhere. Theories abound to his activities. Some say he is 
researching technology - a science which escapes the Fiends. Some say he has returned to paradise. Others say he is 
imminently to return, and when he does it will signal the apocalypse that theologians have been waiting for...

THE HOUSES OF THE INFERNO.
		The Inferno's current organisation is similar to what it was after Lucifer began his reign. It 
retains the structural rigidity of Houses, ruled by Generals alone. However, due to the constant 
inconsistency introduced by Beelzebub's reign, many demons prefer to be 'lone operators' and are part of 
no house. (In game terms, this gives characters a potential stereotype, but does not force them to be part 
of it.)
		Each house 'specialises' in one of Lucifer's bestowals, but they are not the sole users of it. For 
example: The members of the First House of the Inferno are known as the Tempters, and they specialise 
in the bestowal of Endow. They have great power over mortals, but would soon fall prey to other demons 
if they did not have a few of the violent Ravagers in their employ. Similarly, the Ravagers would have little 
sway over the mortal world without a few Tempters.
House One
Known as the Tempters by other demons, this house was originally founded by Lucifer himself. On his 
disappearance, control of the house passed to the demon known as Baal, after his successful corruption 
of an entire minor bloodline of vampires. The Tempters are a reserved bunch, believing themselves 
better than most other demons since they were the first House created. However, they tend to remain 
quiet about their original patron, since it is not 'politically correct' to mention his name. The tempters tend 
to dislike the more visual bestowals, favouring Endow above all others. They are earnest in their belief 
that even other demons are capable of being tempted and corrupted to their ways.
House Two
This House, otherwise known as the Ravagers have Beelzebub as their General. They are comprised 
mostly of Fiends, whose violent nature lends itself to the effects Ravage can produce. A Ravager can be 
seen as a kind of demonic enforcer, evil in the extreme. Most of this house are arrogant about their 
position, and hold their house above all others. They especially hate the Schemers and the Tempters; 
largely because they do not understand their subtleties. Not all of the Ravagers are mindless buffoons, 
however. Many take their disciplinarian roles seriously.
House Three
The Schemers are said by other houses to be corrupted by the mortal world. They probably use 
technology more than any other kind of demon to supplement their house bestowal of Torment, and 
organise themselves along the lines of some sort of infernal corporation. Belial is their General, although 
he is addressed as the Director by other Schemers. When in the Realm, the Schemers dress neatly, and 
carry briefcases. They use written contracts heavily in their pacts, and have an affable demeanour. This 
attitude has persuaded many among the Horde that the Schemers are hiding something. The fiends have 
an almost sacred distrust for them due to their use of technology.
House Four.
The smallest House of the Inferno are known collectively as the Puppeteers. Their House bestowal of 
Appellation needs the true name of a victim to function, and so this house has libraries of books and lists 
of their 'pet' mortals' true names. This constant search for true names has become for the puppeteers 
something of a quest for knowledge. They have often been referred to as the 'house of secrets.' Many 
other Houses distrust them, and they are closely watched by Beelzebub's Ravagers. The fourth House 
makes a powerful friend. Woe betide their enemies. The fourth General of the Inferno is known by many 
names, for he tells no-one his secrets. He is generally referred to as The Enigma.
House Five
Vermin by name; vermin by nature. These pitiful fright-merchants are almost universally disliked for their 
habits, disgusting even by demonic standards.
House Six
This is the House of the Formwielders, users of the bestowal of Wrack. They are lead by their General, 
Azazel, who is the fallen angel brother of Belial of the third House. It is for this reason that the Schemers 
and the Formwielders have long had a truce. Unfortunately, the fallen angels are frowned upon by 
Beelzebub. The sixth house are the spies and disguise artists of the Inferno, and are used by other 
factions for a variety of services. Their ranks are carefully watched over, for these masters of form often 
take each others' place to blackmail or practice extortion.
House Seven
Asphodel is the general of the seventh house of the inferno, that of the Realityshapers. These demons 
are the geographers of the Inferno, and are those who make it possible for other demons to travel to the 
Realm and beyond. Their bastion: The House Of Gates, is full of doors that lead to other places, fantastic 
and mystical. It is said that some of these doors lead into Pandemonium itself, and some even into 
shrouded alcoves in Beelzebub's throne-room. The Realityshapers are a servile house, and they work 
quietly but efficiently when given a task to perform. Often, when demons are sent en masse to the 
Realm, a Realityshaper will accompany them to take them back to the Inferno on completion of their 
mission. It is said that the Formwielders and Realityshapers are but flip sides of the same coin, one 
dealing with the manipulation of the self, one with the manipulation of that which is outside the self.
House Eight
To label a demon as one of the eighth House of the Inferno is a terrible insult. The eighth house is the 
mythical house of the outcasts and Despoilers. Like the Despoilers themselves, those of the House are 
hunted by the Ravagers. Beelezebub has spread propaganda in the past that Lucifer has become a 
member of this House, and is manipulating them from behind the scenes. If they truly exist, then only the 
Puppeteers know the facts, and whether or not the eighth House truly possess True Faith, as the Host 
do...

Pacts.
		The sole purpose of the Horde is to create pacts with the Flock. Pacts (also called Compacts) are simply an 
agreement between a hapless member of the Flock (called a beneficiary) and a demon. The beneficiary receives something in 
return for his own services. The most serious Pacts concern the beneficiary's immortal soul itself, and it is these pacts that have 
found their way into the myths and legends of the modern world. However, other pacts can be made, for treasured memories 
or similar.
		How the pact is made is largely up to the demon in question. Some of the Horde set themselves up as a kind of 
infernal lawyer. A contract is made up and signed in the blood of the beneficiary. Other demons will form verbal agreements, 
backed up by sheer muscle and supernatural weight of power. The Codex protects beneficiaries under Articles Three and 
Four. A compact can only ever be formed by the willing assent of the beneficiary after careful questioning by a demon.
		In game terms, the pact adds to a demon's 'Soul Pool.' This is a reserve of power that the demon has at his 
command, and can be used to fuel further supernatural powers (see 'Character Creation.') Often, the demon must play 
salesman, giving a mortal infernal gifts, while retaining enough soul power to fuel greater supernatural feats. For more 
information on infernal gifts and investments read the sections on 'bestowals' and 'infernal investments.'
		The Storyteller is the final arbiter of how many soul points can be gained from any particular pact, and what 
commodities a demon can demand from his beneficiary. Here follow some examples:











		Note that in some cases, the loss of certain memories can change a person's outlook on life, and the way that they 
act. A player character selling the memories he has of his wife, for example, is losing something cherished, and something that 
makes him act the way he does. Storytellers should feel free to add derangements to such a 'beneficiary', or possibly to change 
his demeanour. In certain circumstances, it may be prudent to change someone's nature. Players should be *well* warned 
about the penalties of 'dealing with the devil,' and should be consulted before changes to their characters take place. 
Naturally, if a character sells the memories of a loved one, or similar, he must be left with the knowledge that he once had 
those memories. Such is the nature of torment.
		Demons can also make pacts and agreements amongst themselves. To seal a pact between demon and demon soul 
points are used. Therefore, soul points can be traded between demons for favours. Soul points can only traded by physical 
contact, such as shaking hands. For example: Gideon, a demon of the first house, does a deal with his beneficiary involving 
protection. Gideon isn't very powerful in physical terms, so he gives the job to Yod, a Ravager. Yod demands four Soul Points 
for this favour, and Gideon must give up four of the five points he gained from his deal. They shake, and the deal is done.



Summonings & Bindings.
		Through myth and legend, mortals and hedge wizards have always had the power to summon those of the Horde. 
Generally, this turns out to be not such a good idea, but it *is* possible. A demon may be summoned, and bound to a person, 
place or circle (drawn on the ground...) From there, the summoner may entreat the demon to do things in return for servitude. 
The trick is to dismiss the demon afterward, without harmful ramifications. 
		The actual cosmological mechanics of summoning and binding are relatively simple. The summoner opens a portal 
into the Inferno, and calls forth the demon he requires, using that demon's true name. A binding is actually an extremely 
localised, extremely powerful strengthening of the gauntlet and shroud, which prevents the demon from moving into the 
spirit world or the inferno, and even out of the boundary of the circle, or vicinity of person or place. These potent 
strengthenings of the gauntlet and shroud are only used for binding demons. Having said that, rumours persist of a circle in 
old, dried blood behind a bricked-up wall in a Vienna residence. Inside lies a dead body, of the mage that drew the circle. His 
spirit, unable to escape to the Shadowlands, Paradise or the Inferno, howls constantly...
		From the demon's point of view, being summoned is a horrible insult, and any self-respecting demon will wish to 
destroy the summoner. However, unless he has the appropriate demonic puissance, he may find himself pressed into the 
service of his new master. Of course - many demons can and will escape such imprisonment. 'Caveat summoner.'
		In game terms, there are many possibilities for summoning a demonic servant. The one thing that *must*  be 
known is the demon's true name (Naturally, a demon can do much the same thing, so never supply a true name to a demon!) 
Secondly, some sort of magic(k)al ability is necessary. Whether this be hedge magic, true magick, (dark) thaumaturgy , or just 
force of will is negligible. For game purposes, a 'Binding Value' is attached to the relevant circle. A demon is less likely to 
escape, the higher the binding value. What follows are a few spells / rites / rituals / rotes designed to facilitate adding 
demons to your chronicle:

Summon Demonic Envoy (Vampire / Hedge Magician thaumaturgical ritual, level four.)
The caster must be in possession of one Blood Point worth of vampiric blood. With this, he marks a circle on the ground, 
surrounded by runes, and magical writings. He then recites this ritual, an act which takes approximately two hours. After this, 
the caster sacrifices a rabbit with a silver knife. This causes a portal to be opened to the Inferno. The caster speaks the true 
name of the demon he wishes to summon into the portal. The demon appears, and is considered bound within the confines of 
the circle, with a Binding Value of 4.

Ward vs. Demons (Thaumaturgical Ritual, level five.)
This potent ritual creates a mystic symbol, which appears after the ritual is cast on an object of the caster's choosing. The effect 
of the symbol is to make an area of ten feet in radius around the symbol impregnable to demonkind. The only component for 
this ritual is three blood points worth of the caster's own blood. The ritual takes fifteen hours to complete, during which the 
object to receive the ward is repeatedly anointed with blood. When the ritual is complete, the symbol appears magically on the 
object. A demon touching the object takes five dice of damage. A demon in the ten foot radius of protection takes 1 dice 
damage for every 20 seconds he is in it.

Summon The Herald Of Hell (Daimonion level seven.)
This power needs to be clarified slightly for use with "Demon: The Temptation." It summons a demon from the Inferno, and 
binds that demon to the service of the caster. No true name is necesary for this summoning, due to Clan Baali's dealings with 
the demon known as Baal.

Rite Of The Accursed Moon Bridge (Garou ritual, level four.)
This rite is effectively a bastardisation of the Rite Of The Opened Bridge. It opens a Moon Bridge to what most garou will term 
Malfeas, but which is actually the Inferno (it is, of course possible to open a bridge to Malfeas, but this ritual doesn't do it) The 
caster shouts the true name of the demon he wishes to summon, and the demon appears. The demon is not considered bound, 
but since this ritual can only be performed at a caern, he is usually persuaded to serve. The pathstone used in this ritual, 
which is the same as the one used to create a 'proper' moon bridge is tarnished by the ritual. Most garou will never use this 
rite, because of the connotations of summoning Wyrm-spawn. However, some Black Spiral Dancers can use it. These 
corrupted garou know  that they consort with the abyss, and not Malfeas.

Demonic Servant (Mage Rote, 3 Spirit / 3 Entropy / 2 Prime.)
First used by the Order of Hermes, this rote is still in wide use amongst that Tradition. Use has also spread to the Euthanatos, 
who use demons as portable assault weapons. The mage distorts reality to open a portal to the Inferno. Once again, he calls 
the true name of the demon he wishes to summon through this portal in order to summon him. Binding is a problem in this 
regard. Use of Spirit 4 will perform the necessary strengthening of Gauntlet and Shroud around a particular area (mages don't 
need circles as such, but many will use them as a kind of focus.) Mind can be used similarly to its use on a human to mentally 
enslave a demon, but the demon's mind is alien. If botches are made on this roll, a Storyteller may consider conferring a  
derangement or two on the mage.

Additionally, the Flock can attempt to summon a demon without using magic(k) at all. This method of 'flying by the seat of 
one's pants' is highly dangerous, since a demon can be summoned, but not dismissed or bound. Also, any demon can answer 
the summons. Some of the Dukes and Generals of hell have a constant ear out for such foolish beings as would try this. In 
game terms, all that needs to be done is this: The summoner must want to summon the demon enough. He spends 4 
Willpower points, and waits. A demon may or may not arrive. Depending on the person, this process is 'livened up' by several 
methods. A tribal shaman would rattle beads and chant, a modern-day occult fanatic might read aloud from a dusty tome he 
found in a second-hand bookstore.

True Names.
		True names have a lot of bearing in 'Demon : The Temptation.' A demon can be summoned using his true name, as 
has been seen. What is less well-known is that demon can summon the Flock using true names, and force them to provide 
services for him. Most ordinary mortals won't even know their true name. Some supernaturals, Tremere vampires, Order Of 
Hermes mages and mummies especially guard their true names.
		So what *is* a true name? Simply put, a true name is a mystical appellation for a person, place or thing. It is the 
name that best 'fits' in a mystical sense. True names can change sometimes, as the demeanour of a person changes. With 
virtually immortal creatures such as demons, vampires or mummies, true names are static, and if known by someone else, can 
make horrible exploitation possible.
		How does one find one's true name? It largely depends on one's viewpoint and belief set. A mage or Tremere clan 
vampire might use mystical tomes to determine a birth chart of sorts, then consult more books to determine a name from this. 
More spiritually oriented characters will use a 'vision quest' and be given their true name by a spirit or totem of some sort. 
Storytellers should bear in mind that a true name not only reflects a character's essence, but also his background.
		 From a game point of view, finding someone's true name should be a difficult task, but not impossible.  Finding 
one's own true name is, however, an easy task. Sale of one's true name is worth 3 soul points, but this is a fool's bargain, and 
demon's can use true names with devastating effect.


CHAPTER TWO - The Game.

Demons & The World Of Darkness.
		How do the Infernals relate to the rest of the published World Of Darkness? Simply enough, since all of the 
supernatural elements of it count as part of the Flock. A demon's primary concern where a supernatural is concerned is that 
some beings have the power to destroy a demon on a whim. Hence, and this is in keeping with popular thought in the 
Inferno, the demon often offers his services to the least powerful.
		Vampires are often a very viable target for demons, since they crave power in their endless political machinations. 
They can be manipulated easily into thinking that, since they are 'immortal', they have no need for a soul as such. Of course, a 
vampire can die as easily as a mortal. The vampire 'clan' called Baali need special consideration, since they are devil-
worshippers. Their power is given to them by Baal, one of the more successful Schemers, and souls that they procure are 
given to Baal. This means that the Baali are nothing but limited stooges. Naturally, the Baali themselves are blissfully unaware 
of this. The Sabbat sect should also be mentioned, as they can also have dealings with demons. The Sabbat are more likely to 
give away their souls, since they care little for their own safety in many respects. In this regard, they are easier to tempt. To 
complicate this, the Tempters have a hard time with the Sabbat, who are more frequently impressed by (and hence corrupted 
by) the Ravagers.
		Werewolves (the Garou) have a spiritual system that does not include the Christian concepts of 'Heaven' and 'Hell.' 
Nevertheless, they are still easy prey for the Horde. Since a Garou is so taken with his mission to save Gaia, he can sometimes 
be persuaded to take on extra power in the belief that it will make his mission that bit easier. Garou have a great physical 
puissance, and a demon should be careful in his dealings with them. Notable in the Garou belief system are two things: 
Firstly, their equivalent of Beelzebub seems to be an entity known only as 'The Wyrm.' Demons 'smell' of the Wyrm to Garou 
senses, and can therefore be in extreme danger from the werewolves. Secondly, the Wyrm supposedly resides in a kingdom 
known as 'Malfeas.' This kingdom is supposedly similar to the Inferno, but no demon traveller has noted any comparison 
between the two realms.
		Mages, as mortals, have many vices and weaknesses that can be exploited by a successful demon. They separate 
themselves into groups like the Garou and Vampires, and some of these groups have particular interest for the Horde. The 
'tradition' known as the 'Euthanatos' are obsessed with death, and what happens during this process. They were the first 
group of mortals to communicate with the Horde on their own terms, and are of great interest to the Schemers. Secondly, a 
larger group of Mages, called the Technocracy are of note. These fools use their power of reality altering to reshape the cosmos 
into their own design. This design ignores the Inferno, and indeed Paradise. Neither Host nor Horde have any dealings with 
them, and they refuse to acknowledge the existence of the eternal verities. Lastly, are a small group called the 'Celestial 
Chorus' who devote their mortal existences to serving the Host. Nevertheless, some of them have been successfully tempted, 
and there are even a few  demons who were once of this order.
		The Wraiths of the Shadowlands are closer to the Horde than they would, perhaps, like to admit. They are dead, 
and are only one step away from the Inferno, which they call Oblivion. They are ruled by their dark sides, or Shadows. They 
do not fall prey to the Cycle Of Iniquity, but they use raw souls as coinage (1 Obolus is worth 1 Soul point.) Some demons 
spend their entire existences working in the Shadowlands for these coins, which they use to replenish their energies. 
However, when doing this, one must be careful not to let one's nature show. The Hierarchy of the wraiths is tyrannical and 
dangerous in the extreme.
		Of the other creatures in this World Of Darkness, let it be said that many of them are too rare to warrant advice. 
Solely the faerie are of any warrant an explanation - They are tricksters, and may, on some occasions even trick one of the 
Horde.
		
How To Run A Story With Demons.
Troupe Play.
		It is probably obvious that "Demon : The Temptation" runs best when one or more demons are included in a party 
of other supernaturals (Vampires or Wraiths for preference.) However, it is possible to work with a troupe of demons in the 
same way that one would deal with a troupe of another type. When working with a number of demons it can be interesting to 
vary the types of demon to produce maximum contrast. In the service of Beelzebub, tempters with suits, briefcases and a great 
deal of finesse are forced to rub shoulders with drooling, disgusting Fiends. One of two outcomes is produced - An uneasy 
alliance, where all are trying hard to maintain the peace, or a situation where backstabbing of any character is imminent and 
simple. Demons of all sorts have to watch their backs carefully.

(Authors Note : Most of my ideas for this game have come from playing and encountering a number of 'Tempter' types. This 
game probably owes much of its nature to these types, and they are probably the best catered for as player characters.)


Theme.
		Theme in a "Demon : The Temptation" story is often one of chaos or morality. Chaos frequently follows demons, 
and they cause it merely by presence in many cases. The morality referred to is generally the morality of the beneficiary, as the 
demon slowly tempts him away from all he holds to be true and right.

Conflict.
		As in any roleplaying game there must be some sort of conflict to challenge the characters. Any Storyteller can 
create a list of possible enemies (Demon vs. Supernaturals, Demon vs. Mortals (The Inquisition, maybe?), Demon vs. Angels...) 
but perhaps a few constants would be more useful.
		A story involving demons as either part or all of a troupe should have an underlying menace. A demon should 
never appear mundane. Even the most experienced Sabbat Bishop, dealing with a minor imp knows that he bargains for his 
immortal soul. Similarly, even the most humane demon is still a demon, a stealer of life and a bringer of death. Therefore, 
demons should always be different in some way. Discuss this with your players.
		Secondly, a demon always knows one thing - He is damned. If he fails in his mission then he will be consigned 
back to the worst of all possible worlds : The Inferno. Even though most demons will have become accustomed to their own 
personal hells, they will still not want to be returned to them. A demon with little time left in the Realm can swiftly find the 
tables turned on him as his last deal turns awry. His beneficiary refuses to give anything, and the demon is returned 
screaming to the pit by Ravagers in the service of Beelzebub, perhaps overenthusiastically...

CHAPTER THREE - Character.

CHARACTER CREATION - INFERNALLY SPEAKING
		Creating a demon character is just about the same as creating any other sort of character, with 
some different Attributes and Statistics. It should be understood that these rules are solely for creating 
'starting' demons. More powerful demons have much more power, and the likes of House Generals, 
Beelzebub, or Lucifer have power beyond mortal comprehension. For example - Lucifer created the 
bestowals, and gave them to demons in general, so each new generation of demons has them. Similarly, 
nothing is likely to depose Beelzebub from his throne at this point except a total uprising in the infernal 
ranks.

Nature And Demeanour.
		Nature and Demeanour archetypes should be chosen, and are as important and integral to this 
game as they are in any other game. It may seem strange that a demon can be, say, a caregiver, but it is 
possible. Demons are given a unique perspective on their lives, and psychologically resemble a warped 
version of their human selves. If nothing else, nature and demeanour give some insight into the demon's 
methods for tempting individuals. At the storyteller's discretion, the extra 'shadow' personality archetypes 
from 'Wraith : The Oblivion' can be used. These have potential for creating some truly nasty characters.

Attributes and Abilities.
		A demon's Attributes and Abilities are determined as normal, that is to say 7, 9, 5 points in 
Attributes (All attributes have a 'free' dot in them to start with); 13, 9, 5 in Abilities.

Backgrounds.
		Backgrounds are given 5 points. The following backgrounds are available to demons, and can 
be found in either 'Vampire: The Masquerade', or 'Mage: The Ascension.'
Allies		-	Similar to the standard background, but refers to demonic and mortal allies, 	
				possibly under pact.
Arcane 		-	This Mage background is available to demons due to their supernatural nature. 	
				Demons in the Realm need some cover.
Contacts		-	Can refer to demonic contacts as well as mortal or supernatural contacts. 
Mentor		-	Demons can train under more experienced demons too.
Resources	-	Useful for demons in the Realm or the Shadowlands. This background also covers 
				other trappings of society like ID or Credit cards, or masks and oboli in the 	
				Shadowlands.
Retainers	-	Also acceptable as a servant or companion. A demon may have a maximum of  	
				two retainers. If the demon has more than two points in this background, the 	
				retainers may be of supernatural nature.
Remnants	-	The demon is relatively 'new' and certain people in the Realm still remember her. 
				This background can afford a demon a place to hide, but can also shatter her 	
				credibility to potential beneficiaries.

Bestowals.
		Bestowals are also given 5 points. These powers may be chosen freely, so long as no one 
bestowal is above 3 points in a starting character. The assignment of bestowals will probably determine 
what House the demon belongs to (demon belongs to the House associated with his highest ranked 
bestowal), although this is not always the case.

Soul Points.
		A demon's soul pool is quite important, as detailed above (see 'Pacts.') It is represented in 
game terms as a scale from one to ten. Ten soul points is the maximum at any one time. Being at zero 
soul points is not fatal, though it is dangerous, if a demon is about to mix with other supernaturals. Soul 
pool starts at zero points. Soul points have a direct bearing on the Bestowals a demon can use. To 
repeat what is mentioned above, Soul Points are a measure of how well the demon is in standing with the 
Inferno for corrupting mortals. Therefore, staying at zero Soul Points for any length of time is liable to 
cause trouble between the Inferno and its errant minion. If, through a high Damnation Pool value (see 
below) a demon falls below zero Soul Points, the fact comes to the attention of Beelzebub himself, who 
may or may not choose to take action.

Damnation Pool.
		The Cycle of Iniquity's effect on a demon's psychology is represented using a statistic called 
'Damnation Pool.' Damnation Pool rises by one point for every week a demon spends in the Realm. 
Secondly, in a situation where a demon has an obvious chance to do something evil and doesn't, he 
must score over two successes on a roll of five dice against a difficulty of his Damnation Pool value or 
gain another Damnation point. If at any time the Damnation Pool rises above ten, the demon loses a Soul 
Point for each Damnation Point above ten. Damnation points can be lost by performing 'evil' deeds. The 
particular evil deed which must be performed is chosen by the Player and Storyteller of the character, 
and is usually linked to the character's mortal life. Whether or not a Damnation Point is lost after an action 
is determined by the Storyteller. Not all actions are worthy...
Example:		Casper was, in life, a serial killer whose 'trademark' was to brand his victims with an 
inverted cross after their death. His player sugegsts to the Storyteller that the same act will be the act that 
regains his Damnation Points. The Storyteller suggests this is a little extreme, and suggests that Casper 
regains Damnation by branding the living...


DEMONIC BESTOWALS
-----------------------------------
		The Horde have supernatural abilities different to other entities in the World Of Darkness. These 
'bestowals' are given to them by the rulers of the Inferno, and some are dependant on the level of soul 
pool the demon has. Simply put, if the demon has not been collecting souls, then he will not be able to 
use many of the more spectacular bestowals.
		A lot of the bestowals listed are similar in effect to some vampiric disciplines. The links between 
these are intended, since some disciplines are changed forms of demonic bestowals.
		An interesting thing to note about bestowals is that they are rarely given freely to their intended 
targets. Often a demon will ask for a favour of some kind in order to confer benefits on his potential 
target. Naturally, it is possible to ask for, say a target's soul, and then use the resultant soul pool value to 
confer the benefit on the donor.

Appellation
---------------
		Appellation is similar to the magical ability of Hekau (taken from 'A World Of Darkness : 
Mummy') as it concerns itself with true names. Appellation is dissimilar to Hekau magic in that it is 
impossible to work with an object using its true name. Although the true name of an object may be 
known, it cannot be interacted with using Appellation.

	* - Scry
Using this power, a demon can 'keep tabs' on a victim. He can do this mentally, receiving a picture of his 
intended target, or he can use a scrying crystal, pool of water, or pool of blood in order to show images to 
others. What is revealed is the view through the target's eyes. Nothing except visual data is received.
System:	This power can be used at will.

	** - Call
A demon can send telepathic messages to his victim using this ability. This message imprints itself on the 
target's consciousness, as anything from clearly spoken mental words, to a sort of auto-suggestion.
System:	The demon selects a target, then rolls Appellation + Perception against a target of 6. The 
number of successes denotes how subtle the message is. One success is a whisper, barely audible in 
the recesses of the victim's mind. Five successes is a clear voice. If a demon gets more successes than 
he needs, he can, of course, 'attenuate the signal' to a quieter form.

	*** - Summon
The demon can transport a being whose true name he possesses to him. This being suddenly appears, 
slightly disoriented, at the demons feet. The victim is not considered bound to the demon in any way, nor 
is he required to do services for the demon.
System: The demon rolls Charisma + Appellation versus a target difficulty of 6. The number of successes 
relates to the time taken for the victim to arrive. The 'travel time' is perceived by the mortal as fleeting 
colours and white noise.
		Successes			Time taken
		1				Unable to summon.
		2				1 Hour.
		3				Half Hour.
		4				1 Minute.
		5				Instant.

	**** - Bind
Just as a conjurer can summon and imprison a demon, the demon can summon another being, and then 
bind them using this power. The demon must have some sort of imprisoning object, such as a circle (or a 
more outlandish object, like a bottle, or book.)
System:	The demon rolls Strength + Appellation against a target difficulty of 6. The number of successes 
becomes the Binding Value of the binding invoked on the victim.

	***** - Dismiss
A very potent ability. The demon has the power to return a being whose true name he possesses back 
whence he came. The demon utters the true name of his victim, and the hapless soul is forced to return 
to his home, haven, or just the Umbra.
System:	The demon rolls Strength + Appellation versus a target difficulty of 7. More than one success is 
required to dismiss a target. The target may negate successes at a cost of one willpower point per 
success.

Endow.
-----------
		Demons greatest power lies in the ability to offer their victims power in exchange for favours 
and souls. Endow is the bestowal which makes this possible. Through it, a demon can offer great 
incentives to start up compacts and contracts. Frequent users of Endow are known to the Horde as 
Tempters. They generally fall into the classic Mephistophelean role.

	* - False Confidence.
Upon receiving Confidence from a demon, the target becomes infused with a feeling of competence, and 
a belief that he cannot possibly do anything wrong. This effect naturally negates other effects such as 
Guilt (Torment level one), or Fear Of The Void Below (Daimonion level two.)
System:	The demon must engage the target in conversation, and tell him how good he is, something like 
'Come on - I know you can do it, I have faith in you' is a good example. He then rolls Manipulation + 
Endow against a target of 5. The duration is about an hour's worth of time. Enough to give that speech, 
or to win that ball game.

	** - Mask Of Damnation.
This is the ability to mask one's aura and intentions from the outside world. The demon can use this 
ability on anyone, including himself.
System:	The demon touches his target, and rolls Perception + Endow versus a difficulty of 6. The 
number of successes denote the duration of the effect. During this time, the demon's aura is masked, 
deleting the 'Diablerie Lines' that make it difficult to operate in Vampire society. Similarly, a demon no 
longer triggers 'Sense Wyrm' or similar.
		Successes			Duration
		1				1 Scene.
		2				1 Day.
		3				1 Week.
		4				1 Month.
		5				Permanent.

	*** - Luck Of The Devil.
This power confers a supernatural luck on a given target. For the duration of the effect, things just seem 
to go his way. Coincidences follow him around, making just about any job easier. This luck is good luck 
centred around the target, it does not affect others adversely. For example, a lucky character would not 
escape death by having his opponent's gun misfire or explode, damaging the firer. Instead, he would be 
likely to trip over, causing the bullet to miss.
System:	The demon rolls Wits + Endow vs a target difficulty of 7. The resulting number of successes is 
added to  all of the target's dice pools until the end of the scene. This power is conferred by sight, and 
costs two soul points to activate.

	**** - Minor Infernal Investitature.
With this power, the demon can confer a small (One or two point) investitature on his target. The target 
must be willing to accept this boon, and generally it is not used except in exchange for the most 
compelling of compacts. Demonic Investments are covered in much better detail in White Wolf's 
'Storyteller's Guide To The Sabbat.' More sample Investitures can be found in Appendix One of this work.
System:	The demon rolls Strength + Endow  against a target difficulty of the target's Stamina plus the 
points cost of the Investitature. The demon must touch his target to confer the investment.

	***** - Major Infernal Investitature.
This power operates exactly the same as it's counterpart, with the exception that investments of three or 
four points can be conferred onto the Flock.

Ravage
----------
		This bestowal is the most visual of all, and is useful against adversaries rather than prospective 
beneficiaries. It centres around the demonic form and traditional hellfire. The users of this bestowal are 
generally Fiends and demons well progressed along the Cycle of Iniquity, although anyone can learn it. 
Its practitioners are referred to as the 'Ravagers' and are counted as the shock troops of the Inferno.

	* - Fumes Of Brimstone.
This power causes the materialisation of thick, yellow sulphurous fumes which expand to fill an area of 
about a room's size. The demon can control the appearance and subsequent dissipation of these fumes, 
for use as cover during an escape, or simply as an entrance.
System:	These fumes can be raised and lowered easily, at the expenditure of one willpower point per 
manifestation.

	** - Flaming Touch.
The demon's hands (or feet, or teeth, but only one of these) become covered in a sheath of flickering 
soulfire (see below.) This does no damage to the demon. 
System:	The demon spends a Soul Point, and mystically catches fire. He may maintain this 
manifestation until the end of the scene, but once dispelled, it cannot again manifest without another Soul 
Point being spent. The demon may cause aggravated damage with the affected appendage.

	*** - Soulfire.
Soulfire is a mystical energy native to the Inferno. In mortal terms, Soulfire is akin to napalm in that it sets 
virtually anything flammable alight. It is however, unlike traditional fire in that it can be any color, and 
leaps from the hands of a demon in a manner akin to a liquid.
System:	The demon rolls Dexterity + Ravage against a target difficulty of 6. Damage is determined by 
the number of Soul Points spent, and is considered aggravated. Even if no soul points are spent, the 
soulfire still sets normal flammables alight. If this occurs, normal flames are observed.

	**** - Fiendish Infusion
Simply, this power allows a demon to use his Soul Points in the same way as a vampire to boost physical 
attributes.
System:	The demon spends one Soul Point per two dots increased in a physical attribute. The stats 
remain increased for a duration of one hour of game time.

	***** - Infernal Transformation.
The demon can assume his demonic form, and immediately assumes a number of bonuses due to this 
transformation. The Codex is at risk after a use of this power, and therefore, even the most crazed fiends 
will not use it stupidly.
System:	Three Soul Points are spent to achieve the transformation. 6 dots are available in this form to 
be spent on whatever Physical Attributes the demon wishes. The 'Apperance' attribute may also be 
affected, but only at the discretion of the Storyteller, and only if the demon's True Form is deemed to be 
more attractive than bestial.

Rending.
-----------------
		Rending is the bestowal that allows a demon to literally tear apart the gauntlet between the 
realm and the umbra. This produces effects similar to Spirit magic, and similar. It should be noted that 
spirits are likely to be able to see a demon's aura, and are hostile. Therefore, critical botches with this 
bestowal can lead to interesting results (at the Storyteller's discretion.) Tales are still told of Blind 
Ragnek, who, after using Rending to view his beneficiary's aura, had his eyes ripped out by spirits. 
Frequent users of Rending are known as Realityshapers.

	* - Spirits of Untruth.
The demon can see vaguely the aura surrounding someone to see if they are lying or not. This is 
accomplished by corroding the gauntlet slightly in order to see through, and is not 'true' aura perception.
System:	The demon rolls Perception and Rending versus a target difficulty equal to the strength of the 
gauntlet in the area. His successes determine what the Storyteller can tell him about the target's veracity. 
Only one target can be checked for each use of this power.

	** - Create Demonground.
There are areas throughout the Realm that are tainted by evil. These areas are repulsive to wildlife, and 
have few plants growing in them. Plants that do persist are stunted, and grow in strange shapes. These 
areas are called demonground, and are formed by the passage of a demon. Sometimes, the smell of 
brimstone will linger here. Lastly, demons are more likely to appear here than anywhere else. A demon 
can create these wastelands.
System:	The demon chooses whether to rend the gauntlet or shroud in his area, then rolls Strength + 
Rending versus a target difficulty of the relevant rating in the area. This rating is lowered by a quantity 
equal to half the number of successes, rounding up. The distinctive look and feel of demonground occurs 
later, but the 'atmosphere' happens almost immediately. This power can only be used once on a 
particular area.

	*** - Walk Infernal Paths.
A demon frequently faces the problem of travelling globally (or even into the Umbra or Shadowlands) to 
visit a beneficiary. Using this power, that task is simplicity itself. When a demon first contacts his 
beneficiary, he arranges a place that the two can meet. At a later date, the demon can instantly travel to 
this place to meet and discuss further blasphemies. Naturally, powerful demons who have networks of 
subservient mortals have an effective global transit system using this power.
System:	The demon rolls Dexterity + Rending versus a target difficulty of the Gauntlet rating of the area 
to be travelled to and spends a Willpower point. The resulting number of successes denotes how long it 
takes the demon to make the journey. A demon must arrange this time lag with his mortal, since being 
late is horribly bad for an Abyssal creature's image(!)
		Successes			Time taken
		1				Unable to make journey.
		2				1 Hour.
		3				Half Hour.
		4				1 Minute.
		5				Instant.

	**** - Escape Binding.
Mages throughout history have been horrified to see demons escape the circles and wards they have 
erected in their protection. the ability is just a judicious use of this power. A demon may simply ignore any 
one binding spell. A demon may not ignore the effects of, for example a 'Ward vs. demons' however, 
unless it is just blocking his escape...
System:	The demon rolls Strength + Rending versus a target difficulty of 6. He must score as many or 
more than successes than the Binding Value of the binding to escape.

	***** - Rend the Reality Veil.
A demon can lacerate the very fabric of reality with this power. Using whatever means he likes (claws, 
sword, bare hands) he makes a slashing motion. Reality distends and rips open, exposing one of the 
Umbra, the Shadowlands, the Realm, or the Inferno. This tear is semi-permanent until closed by the 
demon, or a supernatural of considerable ability and good intention.
System: The demon rolls Strength + Rending versus a target difficulty of the gauntlet (or shroud, if 
attempting to open a portal to the Shadowlands. Difficulty in the Inferno is always 6) value in the area. 
Successes necessary to open a portal are different as per destination:
		Destination			Successes Necessary
		Umbra			3
		Shadowlands		4
		Inferno			6
		Realm				2

Revolt.
----------
		Demons in legend and tales have long had the ability to disgust sensitive mortals. They can 
engender vermin, cause nausea in victims, to add to many less savoury abilities. Those demons capable 
of using the bestowal of Revolt are the basis for these tales. These foul creatures are often shunned by 
others of the Horde, and are named Vermin, after the creatures they have power over.

	* - Fleshcrawl.
This power causes a sudden and intense feeling of 'having one's grave walked over.' It can often herald 
the approach of a demon, but confers no physical damage on the target. It can, however be unnerving...
System:	The demon can engender this feeling simply by glancing at a victim. If this power is used too 
frequently on a particular victim, he will build up a resistance to it.

	** - Nausea.
A more, potent form of Fleshcrawl, Nausea causes a victim to feel as if he is about to vomit. In mortals, 
this is a distracting feeling, but in vampires, it can be quite serious (vampires vomit precious blood.) Note 
that the sickness does not actually take place, but the victim thinks it will.
System:	The demon rolls Perception + Revolt versus a target difficulty of the subject's Stamina + 
Fortitude (if any.) The resulting number of successes is the number of hours the victim will feel nauseous 
for. Nauseated characters lose one success from all pools, and magic(k)al effects/disciplines etc. have 
their effectiveness lessened by one success.

	*** - Engender Vermin.
A demon may conjure forth one handful of vermin to do his bidding. The type of vermin is left to the 
demon, but it should be something widely held to be disgusting. A rat, some slugs, spiders, cockroaches 
etc. The vermin may be caused to appear anywhere, such that the appearance causes no damage to 
anyone. Therefore, it is impossible to conjure a handful of slugs in someone's windpipe. However, 
conjuring slugs around someone's mouth and nostrils would be a legitimate use of this power. Note that 
the vermin so engendered are not forced to do the demon's bidding.
System : This power costs one soul point to use.

	**** - Pack Leader.
The demon becomes irresistably attractive to vermin. Once again, the demon chooses the type of 
vermin, but he can then call his 'pack mates' to join him. The amount of vermin summoned like this is 
theoretically unlimited, but storytellers should remember that vermin can only travel so fast, and there will 
be few in a given area. A particularly revolting use of this power would be to transform a human form into 
a seething mass of maggots or cockroaches, whilst standing in an abandoned tenement flat. Although a 
demon can give orders to a group of creatures in this way, he cannot see through their eyes or use 
bestowals through them in the same way he could if using 'Form of the multitude' (Wrack level 5.)

	 ***** - Transmute Matter.
This bizarre power allows a demon to escape mortal bonds and prisons. He can alter quantities of matter, 
transforming them into a seething mass of vermin. The vermin created in this matter are not considered 
controlled by the demon, neither can the type of vermin created be controlled. A morass of creatures, 
each feeding on another appears, and tumbles forward if its cohesion is threatened in any way.
System : The demon rolls Stamina + Revolt against a target difficulty of 6. the number of successes 
determines how many kilogrammes of matter the demon is *capable* of transmuting. The demon must 
then spend one soul point for each kilogram of matter he wishes to transmute, up to a total less than or 
equal to his successes.

Torment.
------------
		The bestowal of Torment allows a member of the Fallen to cause the flock mental and physical 
agony. The lower levels are classic fare for the 'Tempter' style of demon, while the higher levels lend 
themselves more to less subtle pursuits.
	* - Guilt.
This power causes an intense feeling of guilt in the victim. The demon must have the victim engaged in 
conversation, and 'set up' the guilt, by suggesting why he should be guilty. The target will then feel strong 
feelings of guilt, opening him psychologically to yet more torment.
System:	The demon rolls Manipulation + Torment versus a difficulty of the target's willpower. The demon 
need not even be able to see his victim to use this power, but must be able to engage him in 
conversation. Therefore, a telephone conversation can work as a medium for this power.

	** - Fear Of Falling.
This power is possibly the most frequently used power by the tempters of the Horde. The victim must be 
engaged in conversation, and then some sort of hint dropped, suggesting that the target has a dilemma 
of some sort. Valid suggestions are "I hear people are plotting against you" or "Maybe your inability to 
swim could cause your downfall." The only real constraint is that the suggestion must have a grain of 
truth in it. If the demon's use of the power is successful, the target will feel feelings of doubt, centred 
around the suggestion.
System:	As for 'Guilt', the demon rolls  Manipulation + Torment versus a difficulty of the target's 
willpower. The target suffers no physical damage in game terms, just a paranoid feeling which he must 
roleplay.

	*** - Tragedy Of The Lost Embrace.
With this power, the demon has the ability to cause feelings of loneliness and betrayal. It undermines the 
victim's self-confidence, and causes him to feel he has never had a real friendship or love for anyone. He 
feels lost and alone, and needs more than anything else to be with someone. Of course, this is an 
incredibly successful way of seducing the Flock. Any attempts made by the victim to interact with others 
after use of this power are at -2 to the relevant dice pool due to the look of desperation in his eyes, the 
way his voice holds a tone of pleading.
System:	Roll Charisma + Torment against a target difficulty of 7, or 5 if the target has been drinking or is 
otherwise open to suggestion. The target difficulty is reduced by one if this power has ever been used 
successfully on the victim before. The demon must be able to see his victim to use this power, which 
holds sway over the victim until the end of the scene.

	**** - Torment Of The Physical Desire.
A demon with this power possesses the ability to amplify a victim's normal physical needs to a degree 
where they become the worst kind of torture. The demon chooses any normal physical desire, such as 
hunger, thirst, sexual need or sleeplessness. The target suffers an aching need to satisfy his desire, even 
to the point of being incapacitated with longing. However, no matter what the victim does, he cannot rid 
himself of the anguish.
System:	Roll Stamina + Torment against a difficulty of 7. The number of successes achieved on this roll 
are subtracted from ALL the victim's dice pools for the remainder of the scene. If the victim is surrounded 
by the object of his physical craving, then he MUST indulge in it for the duration. At the Storyteller's 
discretion, dire effects can result from the frenzied attempts to indulge. Examples of this would be 
breaking the Masquerade due to insane blood lust, or choking to death whilst trying to eat enough food to 
satisfy the hunger.

	***** - Taste Of The Inferno.
The demon can cast a victim into the horror of the Inferno, for a limited time. The target of this power 
experiences first-hand what it would be like to be damned. It should be noted that this experience is 
different for every mortal. If this horror is perpetrated on a player character, then the Storyteller should 
feel free to use whatever horrors he wants to show the effects of the power.
System:	Spend a Soul Point, then roll Perception + Torment versus a target of 6. The victim may negate 
successes at a cost of one willpower point per success.
		Successes			Duration
		1				1 Scene.
		2				1 Day.
		3				1 Week.
		4				1 Month.
		5				Permanent.
When the hapless victim emerges from the Pit, he will be at least slightly insane. Storytellers should give 
the victim one or more derangements, based on the content of the personal hell.
Example : Lucy, a Tremere Vampire has offended Azraak, Demon of the fifth house. Azraak condemns 
Lucy to the Inferno. Lucy has always had a fear of rats, and finds herself buried under a seething morass 
of rodents in her own personal misery. The furry bodies rub against her, occasionally nibbling at her 
flesh, which heals in seconds. She spends a week like this, before falling to the ground, once again in her 
haven. She now has a serious case of claustrophobia, as well as a fear of most rodents.
Note: It is possible to break the Codex with this power. If a person who has a significant chance of 
ascending on death experiences the Inferno, Those Who Watch can take action. The Storyteller has full 
discretion here.

Wrack
---------
		The bestowal of Wrack is a multi-purpose supernatural ability to change form. It can simulate 
some of the classical demonic abilities, from appearing in the smoke from a fire to assuming the form of 
the classical devil. Its greatest users are called the Formwielders.

	* - Assume Demonic Form.
This simple power allows a demon to switch between mortal form and demonic form. This can only be 
used as a 'frightener' for supernaturals or animals, for to show one's demonic form to an ordinary human 
would be a serious breach of the Codex. Demonic form can be used against other supernaturals, since it 
can be explained as something other than the form of a true demon.
System:	This form can be dropped and assumed at will. The transformation is almost instant.

	** - Mimicry.
This power allows a demon's mortal form to mimic the form of a specific mortal. The disguise is almost 
perfect, but never totally complete. A demon may mimic a shape, but will always have a flaw of some sort 
such as eyes with no pupils, or a smell of brimstone about them.
System:	The demon rolls Dexterity + Wrack against a target difficulty of 6 if the demon has seen or 
knows the target of his mimicry, or 8 if the demon has only a photograph or likeness. The number of 
successes determines the accuracy of the guise. However, there will *always* be a small flaw in the 
disguise.
Note: Only successes in the range of 8 or more would allow a duplication good enough to pass a loved 
one's eye. In this way the Flock is protected from demons in the form of friend or family.
 
	*** - Form Of The Object.
Demons in legend have the power to appear in the midst of burning flames, or as faces in the trunk of a 
tree. Form Of The Object allows a demon to effectively become an object of some sort. He can mould the 
features of the object as he pleases, and even speak through it (of course, in the case of a speaking tree 
the voice would be high and squeaky, a cloud's voice would be low and sonorous.)
System:	The demon rolls Stamina + Wrack whilst touching the object he wishes to inhabit against a 
target difficulty of 6. The number of successes is the number of minutes he can stay inside the object. 
During this time, the demon's mortal body becomes lifeless and inert. After this time, the object returns to 
its normal shape.

	**** - Mutability.
A demon can use this power to regain a facet of his demonic form. Be it that his feet now leave smoking 
footprints, or that his mortal form has bat-wings. Any single facet can be regained during a demon's tour 
as a mortal. The use of this power alone has been known to drive mortals into a frenzy of terror. 
Therefore it should be used sparingly, for the benefit of Those Who Watch.
System:	The demon rolls Stamina + Wrack against a target difficulty of 6. The number of successes 
denote how permanent the new feature is. One success is enough to gain the feature for a scene or two 
and terrify mortals. Five or more successes retains the feature until the demon dismisses this facet of his 
form. To protect the Codex, a mortal seeing a demon in any really outlandish form is subject to the 
effects of the Delirium (Werewolf : The Apocalypse.)

	***** - Form Of The Multitude.
This power is perhaps one of the more eldritch abilities of demons. The demon casts his consciousness 
into several living creatures. Swarms of insects or small groups of animals are the scope of this power. A 
demon could project himself into a swarm of bees, spiders, cockroaches or similar, but only into, say, six 
cats. This power requires some guidance from the Storyteller in this respect.
System:	The demon rolls Stamina + Wrack versus a target difficulty assigned by the Storyteller. This 
difficulty is based on the size of the collection of creatures (6 for three cats, or a swarm of insects of 
about the volume of three cats...) and whether the creatures are present. If they are not, they will respond 
to a summon implicit in this ability. They arrive within ten minutes of use of this ability.

APPENDIX ONE : INVESTMENTS
One Point
Eyes Of Darkness - The beneficiary's eyes become twin pools of complete and utter darkness. Their 
Appearance attribute drops immediately by one point, but their Intimidation score rises by three points.
Pan's Curse - The beneficiary gains small horns on his forehead. This investment can be used as a 
punishment or to 'increase' the appearance of the beneficiary.

Two Points
Supernatural Sense - The beneficiary can sense any supernatural creature within thirty feet of him. The 
supernatural individual just 'feels' more 'important' than others.

Three Points
Killer Instinct - The beneficiary can spend twowillpower points to send any domesticated animal within 30 
feet of him into an insane killer rage. Cats, dogs, pet budgies will all turn on their owners, anyone else 
human, or seek wild animals to take out their rage on. The beneficiary is never a target for such damage 
incursion.


APPENDIX TWO : BIBLIOGRAPHY
There's a few books that could happily bring you 'up to speed' on the ideas I've taken for demon. Here's 
some good ones.
White Wolf's 'Vampire Storytellers' Guide' (invaluable for Clan Baali, and a damned good read.)
White Wolf's 'Storytellers' Guide to The Sabbat' (I keep mentioning this one...)
'Paradise Lost' by John Milton. (Ageless... Book One deals exclusively with the Horde.)
'Inferno' by Dante (Details on the 'levels' of the Inferno.)
'Sandman' by Neil Gaiman, notably the 'Season Of Mists' anthology.
'Good Omens' by Gaiman and Pratchett (another 'good read' but has some cool ideas for fiends.)

APPENDIX THREE : AUTHOR'S NOTES
	I started writing this piece quite a long time ago. At the time there was hardly any support for Demons 
in the World of Darkness, which is surprising since White Wolf have sold out just about every other facet 
of WoD. This project happened because I have had a fascination with the Infernal in the WoD games I 
have played that borders on the unhealthy. Seriously, though, I think the game deserves demons, and I 
think this has given them some of the treatment they deserve. I am glad to see that the demons 
described in 'The Book Of Madness' fall more or less exactly into my rule-set with minimal conversion.
	Unfortunately, I managed to not work on this for a long time, and there was a second stint of writing. 
What you have here may seem unfinished in areas, and overenthusiastic in others. It was written a lot 
before anything else I have written, and that may show in areas.
	One of my motivations in writing this, or anything, is that I read and absorb a massive quantity of data 
written by authors and net correspondants, professionals and amateurs. I'd like to thank them all 
personally, but I cannot, due to my own personality, and the sheer number of those I should thank. 
Simply put, if I have ever read your work, then this piece is dedicated to you. Thanks, and this is some 
form of inadequate payment. This work is considered public domain, and if you wish to use it do so with 
my blessing, so long as you do not do so for profit before consulting with the author (me.) I can be 
reached electronically at 'c2nhuggi@compapp.dcu.ie' or physically at 'Nick Huggins, 65 Pine Valley 
Avenue, Rathfarnham, Dublin 16, Ireland.'

See you all on 'Page XX.'
Nick.

CREDITS
Joe "Red Pen Samurai" Murphy, for being the best hostile proof-reader a man could have.
Simon "Tourach" Rooney and Silja "Said Hamlet to Ophelia..." Muller, for proofreading without
destroying my ego.
 Eoin "Freelance servitor" McDonnell, for being William to my Karl, and for destroying the PLO.
Aidan "Herr Flick" O'Brien, for being Andrew to my Gideon, and for forgiving me.
Brian "Hobbit Habit" Nisbet, for being scared by all this horror.
Sean "The Nicest Guy Around" Harnett for persuading me to work when I'd stopped.
Tadhg, Simon, Dorian and Paul for Storytelling various games where I played, or encountered a demon - inspiration never 
comes cheaply.
Lastly, Mollie, for listening and maintaining a semblance of interest whilst I raved at her.

                            
+--------------------------------------------+----------------------------+
| Nick Huggins - Student & Wannabe writer.   |"I keep telling you. Story- |
|                                            | tellers are omnipotent. I  |
| Mail : c2nhuggi@compapp.dcu.ie             | know everything. "         |
| Web  : http://www.compapp.dcu.ie/~c2nhuggi/|          - Gonzo The Great.|
+--------------------------------------------+----------------------------+
| Annoy the NSA : "Bomb, Nitro, C-4, War, Semtex, Uranium, Nuclear"       |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

