From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Tue Jan 13 21:05:58 1996
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Path: news.kth.se!nntp.uio.no!fizban.solace.mh.se!news.ecn.uoknor.edu!paladin.american.edu!gatech!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!concert!bigblue.oit.unc.edu!pfstrack
From: pfstrack@email.unc.edu (Paul Strack)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller,alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: Demographics in Mage
Date: 13 Jan 1996 21:05:58 GMT
Organization: University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Lines: 165
Message-ID: <4d96rm$liu@bigblue.oit.unc.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: login0.email.unc.edu
Xref: news.kth.se rec.games.frp.storyteller:10794 alt.games.whitewolf:51340

The Demographics of Mages
 
One of the big unanswered questions of Mage is exactly how rare the 
wielders of True Magick actually are.  We have the 1/100,000 ratio for 
vampires, and it is not too difficult to deduce werewolf demographics 
based on the existing supplements, but there is little to no real data 
given on how common True Mages are.  Of course, the simple answer is 
that there are as many as you need, but being an avowed number cruncher 
this is unsatisfying.  There are three broad possibilities:
 
True Mages are incredibly rare:  Mages have great power, and many people 
have argued that they should be correspondingly rare.  Estimates of 
about 1 per million are common enough.  This would mean that there are a 
mere 5,000 or so mages total on the planet.  Perhaps 1500 of them are 
Technomancers, 3000 Tradition and the remainder Orphans, Nephandi and 
Marauders.  Traditions will consist of a few hundred mages.  It is quite 
possible for an individual mage to know most of the members of his 
Tradition; the masters of each Tradition almost certainly do, as well as 
most of the important mages of other Traditions.  Subtraditions, if they 
exist, will consist of a few Cabals.
 
Anyone with magick is probably a True Mage:  At the opposite extreme, 
one can equate magick with True Magick.  Anyone that displays magickal 
prowess is some sort of mage.  True Mages are probably 1 per 10,000 
people, or more common.  Traditions are huge, with tens of thousands of 
members.  None but the most powerful mage can hope to know even the most 
important mages of his own Tradition.  In fact, most weaker mages will 
likely know little about their Tradition, and will not be very different 
from Hedge Mages (perhaps even taking their place).  Subtraditions will 
be common and significant; nearly every flavor of earthly magick will 
have at least a few True Mages practicing it.
 
Mages are about as common as other supernatural creatures:  My choice, 
though the other options are equally viable.  This makes mages number 
roughly 1 per 100,000 people.  Traditions will consist of a few thousand 
members.  Lesser mages will know comparatively few members of their 
Tradition, but the Masters in a Tradition will know most of their peers 
(except those that deliberately hide themselves from other mages).  Many 
earthly types of magick will be practiced by True Mages, but not all.
 
There are a few other considerations one needs to make about magely 
demographics.  Mages tend to be very well traveled.  With the Sphere of 
Correspondence a mage can be across the planet in a heart beat.  Mages 
have advanced sources of information that draw them to many strange 
places.  Chantries have nodes all over the place, and links to several 
different cities.  The Technocracy is wide spread as well.  It may 
difficult, if not impossible, to determine if a mage lives in one 
particular city or another.  Thus, comparatively few mages can "fill up" 
the world, because they can go everywhere.
 
Not all mages will be members of a Chantry.  Orphans and mages like the 
Syndicate and the Dreamspeakers are often "independent", and most 
Traditions have a fair number of members who go this route.  Such mages 
are more likely to be homebodies, linked to a specific location, and 
might make up half the magely population.  Though they are not members 
of a Chantry, such mage need not be loners.  They often band together in 
small groups.  They may have a loose association with a nearby Chantry, 
to get access to its nodes, or they may share a small nearby nodes 
amongst themselves.
 
Chantry, on the other hand, tend to have larger concerns.  True 
Chantries are likely to have between a dozen or a hundred members, with 
30 or 40 being average.  This would make it so there are only several 
hundred Chantries world wide if one uses the "moderate" estimates of 
magely population (and fewer or more if other estimates are used).  
Maybe a third of these Chantries are single Tradition, another third 
consist of only two or three Traditions, and the rest being mixed 
Tradition.  In the past, Chantries were more numerous and homogenous, 
but as the Horizon War grinds on, more Chantries fall and Mage are 
forced to band together and share their resources.
 
Many Chantries tend to pick one major area and stake it out as their 
"turf".  Few cities will have more than one Chantry located within it.  
This is not to say that other Chantries will not have an interest in a 
city; larger cities may have the spies and embassies of several 
Chantries.  This also says nothing of independent mages, and temporary 
incursions of larger groups.
 
The "power spread" of mages is important as well.  An apprenticeship 
seems to take relatively little time (a few years at most), so the bulk 
of mages will be Disciples.  Adepts will be somewhat rarer, perhaps one 
out of three mages.  Masters will be rarer still, maybe one out of ten.  
Thus, given 10 random mages, 1 or 2 will be apprentices, 3 will be 
Adepts, 1 will be a Master and the remaining 4 or 5 will be Disciples.  
(If mages are more common, the power curve should be steeper, with 
Adepts being only 1 per 10 mages, and Master 1 per 100.)
 
The apprentices will likely be under the tutelage of an Adept or Master, 
while maybe 25% to 50% of Disciples are still mentored by a mage of 
greater power.  Most Masters and many Adepts will have some sort of 
student or mentee (mentite? one being mentored?).  A few Masters and 
Adepts will specialize in teaching and mentoring, but rarely with more 
than a handful of lesser mages under their charge.  Disciples will 
rarely take on students, unless they are the only mage of a particular 
Tradition that is available.
 
It is important not to overlook the importance of Hedge Mages when 
considering the demographics of Magely society.  Whatever "holes" are 
left by True Mages are likely filled by Hedge Mages.  Unless True Mages 
are common, there will be barely enough of them to maintain any sort of 
continuity of Tradition.  The timely destruction of one or two Chantries 
can completely end a magickal line.  This is where Hedge Mages become 
important.
 
There are Hedge Magick counterparts to nearly every Mage Tradition.  In 
fact, there are even more Hedge Magick groups, with a more specific 
focus than the Traditions.  The Traditions are umbrella organizations 
that include mages with some similarities in philosophy, but often 
varying widely in the details.  The Order of Hermes, for example, 
includes Rosicrucians, Cabalists, Members of the Golden Dawn, Alchemists 
and so on.  Most of the forward impetus and history of these minor 
groups are in fact carried on by Hedge Mages, or even Sleepers with an 
interest in magick.  There are not enough True Mages in the world to 
carry on the magickal tradition of (for example) Voodoo; it is Hedge 
Mages that take up the slack.
 
In fact, Hedge Mages can sometimes hold the secrets even of the greater 
Traditions during times of darkness.  Hedge Mages occasionally capture 
and record the secrets of True Magick, and pass them down through the 
ages.  Though they do not have the necessary power to perform this 
greater magick, they study it none-the-less, repeating the Rotes blindly 
without full comprehension.  Over time the knowledge is corrupted, but 
little gems are hidden within Hedge Magick lore, waiting for the fully 
awakened eye to bring them into the light.
 
The relationship between Hedge and True Mage is a rocky one.  True Mages 
dismiss Hedge Mages as dabblers, albeit sometimes powerful ones.  Hedge 
Mages know little of True Mages.  From the point of view of a Hedge 
Mage, a True Mage is a Being of Power, rarely seen or understood, barely 
human and more akin to spirits.  Hedge Mages know almost nothing of the 
Ascension Wars.  They know just enough to keep their noses clean, to 
avoid attracting the attention of greater powers.
 
It seems possible that Hedge Mages would be a great recruiting ground 
for True Mages, but this is not the case.  Perhaps once someone is 
"partly" awakened and knowledgeable enough to use Hedge Magick, it 
limits their perceptions and makes it difficult for them to make the 
jump to True Magick.  On the other hand, True Mages scour the world for 
those with the potential to fully awaken, and do their best to snatch 
them up young.  A person with an Avatar strong enough to become a True 
Mage is rarely allowed to study Hedge Magick for long.  Not a few Hedge 
Mages have had promising students taken away in the night by strange and 
powerful beings.
 
Note that the scientific community in many ways fills the role of Hedge 
Mages for Technomancers.  Sleeper scientists in fact do much of the 
ground work for scientific advances, and carry the Technocratic paradigm 
forward while the Technocracy itself is busy with other things.  The 
Technomancers also prefer to "recruit them young", because a scientist 
that spends too long working in the mundane world will be blinded to the 
greater possibilities of Technomagick.
 
Just because Hedge Mages (and scientists) are denigrated by True Mages 
does not mean they no importance.  Genius and magick do not always go 
hand in hand.  Many advances, scientific, magickal and philosophical, 
come up from the ranks, theorized first by mundanes and then picked up 
and worked on by True Mages.  It is possible, in fact, that many of the 
theories, lifestyles and technologies supported by mages would have 
become a part of the world without their aid, though perhaps not as 
quickly or as thoroughly.

-- 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Paul Strack            |  Madness takes its toll.
pfstrack@email.unc.edu |  Please have exact change.


