From: thanatos@interaccess.com
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: Penny Dreadfuls III
Date: 13 Dec 1993 02:39:48 -0600
Organization: InterAccess, Chicago's best Internet Service Provider
NNTP-Posting-Host: home.interaccess.com

While searching through the archives, I remembered this old series, and
how much fun it was doing.  Basically, it presents the world of
darkness from the hunter's point of view.  What would interest him?
What could he run across?  In this, I present the Pockets of the
World of Darkness, dangerous toys to be found while rutting around
in the pockets of the mage you just whacked.  Enjoy.

(Oh, and for those of you wondering, Penny Dreadfuls I and II can be
found in the soda.berkeley.edu vampire-l mailing list archives.  Happy
hunting!)


Penny Dreadfuls III

Looting the Pockets of the World of Darkness

Grant here.  The city's a good place to scavenge stuff when money's
short.  After cacking that pale in the alley, remember to check his
pockets for some toys he left lying around.  You never know what
you might find in there.  Take their sunglasses:

SunGlasses:  (Force 3, Prime 2)  A neat pair of specks created by a
Hermetic Mage who grew tired of having to pander to the social
cliche of sunglasses at night.  While wearing them, the user can see
as if the area was illuminated with full sunlight, negating vision
penalties.  Note that if the darkness is created by something that
would snuff normal sunlight (Obtenebration), the Glasses provide no
support.  The Glasses also have a rather nasty side effect.  When a
word, known only to the user, is spoken, the pent-up energy within
explodes outwards, illuminating the area for one moment in full
sunlight.  This is enough to cause damage to Kindred (as per solar
exposure rules), and induce Rotschreck.  Note that the blast will
only aim _outwards,_ away from where the user is standing.  If
someone ELSE were to be wearing the glasses, and the command
word was spoken, then the wearer would suffer twice normal
effects.  After the discharge, the Talisman must be left out in the sun
for 6 hours before they will function again.

MoonGlasses:  (Level 3 fetish)  Similar to SunGlasses, the
MoonGlasses allow any area to seem to be illuminated as if there
was a full moon in the sky.  This effectively protects the viewer from
sudden bursts of light, a boon for a vampire.  Note that simply
viewing such a sight will cause Ahroun to gain a point of Rage.  This
is only avaliable once per night, and only on nights _not_ ruled  by
the full moon.  By spending a Point of Gnosis and rolling
Wits+Enigmas, Diff 6, the wearer can perceive a snapshot of any
area illuminated by that light.  For instance, the Garou can catch a
glimpse of Picadilly Circus regardless of where he is standing on the
planet, as long as there is a full moon hanging over it.

The Glasses:  (Mind 3), Created by a brilliantly insane Son of Ether,
it is the single greatest weapon the "Sleepers" have against the
Technomancers.  After watching another roommate get snuffed
trying to awaken a new recruit, the Son realized that she needed to
change direction.  She knew that there was a HUGE group of
disenfranchised people who actively believed that there was some all
powerful illuminati trying to take over the world.  Since they actively
disbelieved in the Technomancer's enforced reality, she knew she
could tap into this base distrust, by giving them what they wanted.
	She fashioned a pair of sunglasses, and enchanted them so
that anyone could use them successfully.  Put simply, if a person
wears these glasses, the glasses scan the area for any
Technomancers or anyone using Technomancer Magick.  Once the
information is discovered, the Glasses project into the mind of the
USER powerful illusions that the Technomancer or the item being
used is something wholly alien.  Since a Technomancer is more likely
to be in a position of power, the conspiracy nut will obviously
believe that this is the proof he requires to show that aliens landed in
Dallas to murder JFK.  Proof being a powerful thing, the nut will
take up his war, armed with his glasses, and blow up anything that
looks funny.
	What precisely the user sees is up to the Storyteller.  Some
suggestions range from all Technomancers being stereotypic
Communists in great coats, with vodka in each fist, to Japanese
vomiting forth from all types of medium, to even aliens from another
dimension, who have taken over the world.  However, the constant
influx to the brain _does_ generate Paradox.  To the Sleeper, this
manifests in a pain so severe that a health level is lost an hour.  This
damage can be regained by taking them off, and resting for a like
amount of time.  For a Mage, a Paradox point is collected per hour
of _total_ use.  If the Mage consistently puts it on, and takes it off
very fast, remeber to throw enough curve balls (he really didn't get a
good glimpse last time) to encouage him to keep them on.
	Even though the Son never awakened a single user of the
Glasses, those who use them call those who do not "Sleepers,"
almost reflexively.

Rose Colored Glasses:  (Correspondence 3)  Scrying pools have
long been used to see things from far off.  A weaker variant of the
basic divination spell neccessitates a like reflective surface to be put
in the viewed area.  In short, to use a mirror as a scrying object, a
mirror must be actively available in the target area.  The
disadvantage is obvious; a mage must be certain a mirror is present,
and aimed the right way, for the spell to work.  The advantage is
that the Magick is purely Coincidental, and that unlike other forms of
Correspondence, where another mage might sense someone
"snooping," no such sensing is possible.
	When the Talisman is used, the viewer locates a pair of
glasses near the target area.  He then can see through them as if he
were wearing them at that very instant.  The problems here are
obvious.  First, unless he uses Mind, the user has no control over
what the glasses look at.  Second, the user sees through them
precisely as if he was wearing those particular glasses.  Thus, if the
target glasses are cokebottles, or dark sunglasses in a dimly lit room,
there might be no opportunity for viewing, other than a fuzzy picture.

Beer Goggles:  (Mind 3)  An innocuous pair of Glasses, more
novelty than useful item, they act to change anyone the viewer looks
at to App 5.  The result varies from subject to subject; although the
look will bend to the aesthetics of the user, not all women viewed
will be the same, and not all men viewed will be the same.  Each will
be a blend between the true form and the ideal form.  About the
only use the glasses have is to completely negate any negative
responses when dealing with Nosferatu.

Peril-Sensitive Sunglasses(TM):  (Force 2, Mind 3, Spirit 4, Force
5)  The Glasses sense when danger approaches, whether it  be
someone seeking to do harm to the wearer, or an accident, and
darkens the glasses appropriately, so that the wearer doesn't have to
see the one that gets him.  The user is effectively blinded as long as
he wears the glasses, and danger approaches.  Not particularly
useful, except in that the glasses are completely indestructable, and
have been known to be the only thing to survive particularly henious
Paradox strikes.

Imagine Sunglasses:  Looking very much like a sporty pair of John
Lennon sunglasses, the actual set is nothing of the sort.  When a
mental trigger is given, the lens captures the image of the scene
before it.  This can be anything from a "picture" to a book that was
stared at.  The image will remain until the trigger is given again. 
Anyone wearing the glasses will see the image as it was.  The image
will last for five minutes before fading forever.  During this time, the
glasses may be passed around to all.  Note that the original image is
subjective to the user.  Thus, someone with Gleam of Red Eyes who
looks in a darkened room would retain an image of a room exactly
as he would see it.  In the five minute period of time, anyone can see
precisely what he saw.  Note that if someone without special visual
acuity took the original, then the room would be dark, regarless of
who looked through them later.  Noticing details within the image is
a standard Per+Scan (Diff 4).

Glasses Incognito:  (Mind 3)  When a user activates these glasses,
all Fame rolls drop to 0.  Anyone who looks upon the wearer
merely remaks, "Naah, can't be him."

There's a whole bunch more stuff, if you're willing to dig deeper.

BloodyGums:  An odd thing to find in a vampire's pocket, this item
looks exactly like a standard pack of gum, with "BloodyGum"
emblazoned on the label.  In fact, the gum is created by Tremere
travelling into hostile territory.  The process, a level 4 ritual, takes a
night to complete, and creates a minimum of 10 sticks.  Any
Kindred who chew on a stick soon notice their mouth filling with
warm, sticky blood.  To completely extract all blood takes five
minutes of chewing, and yields 1 Blood Point.  The problem with
BloodyGum lies in the fact that some deceptive Tremere bloodbond
unknowing vampires by introducing them to this novelty, and then
supply them sticks containing their own blood!  Also, Malkavians
have found a copy of the Ritual, and are somehow producing
packes for distribution, passing them out to kine at parties.
	Make BloodGum:  (Level 3):  An exceedingly rare ritual
created recently by some enterprising Tremere wanting to be able to
travel freely in areas where feeding is dangerous.  The Caster must
acquire 20 points worth of blood.  During the 10 hour ritual, the
blood coheses into a pack of gum placed into the receptacle.  The
Gum will last practically forever, as long as no harm comes to it
(burning, etc.)

Mirror of Thaumaturgy:  In recent years, the Tremere have found
themselves butting heads consistently with other members of the
World of Darkness who try to use their magick wantonly.  One
enterprising Tremere has invented this in retaliation.  
	The Mirror appears to be a standard 2" by 4" rectangular
mirror.  The silvered glass seems to reflect a scarlet sheen.  When
used, the mirror actually reflects a single magical attack aimed at the
Tremere.  This can be anything from a discipline, to a Gift, to a
Magickal effect.  The Mirror must be held out forcefully, as if
signalling to anyone watching that the holder expects the Mirror to
deflect the power.  This is usually enough of a clue to any observers
that something is wrong, and care should be taken.
	When the effect is delivered, the Holder rolls Wits+Occult
(diff 8), in a resisted test against the successes of the attack.  Against
Magick, the Mirror's successes are halved if Coincidental, and
fourthed if Vulgar.  However, for each blood point spent, an
automatic success can be garnered, but only against Magick.
	After a single application, the Mirror shatters, doing 1 health
level to the Wielder.
	The ritual that created it is lost to time, but some say it is a
higher level version of Pavis of Foul Presence, and by researching
that spell, clues may be gathered.

The Seven-Year Bite:  (Entropy 4, Time 4, Prime 3)  An annoying
little talisman, it is cast on a mirror, and then placed to break
somewhere.  The breaker triggers the effect:  a powerful curse
levelled on the Breaker.
	Once per day, for the next seven years, luck turns sour for
the breaker.  It can be as mundane as the loss of a success at an
inconvenient moment, turning a success into a failure, or a failure into
a botch, or as severe as an hour where a single Attribute, chosen at
random, will rise and fall.
	The only two known ways to reverse the curse is to find the
caster, and either ask them to lift it, or kill them outright, or to collect
the pieces of the Mirror, and find a way to turn it back to its original
state (usually taking Entropy 5, Time 4, Prime 3).

The Infinity Compact:  The Compact appears to be a standard
make-up case, consisting of a concave mirror, and a regular mirror. 
A user will note that the case can be partially closed at a certain
angle to allow an object to appear first in the concave mirror, then a
very reduced image in the regular mirror.
	When a mental command is given, an inanimate object of
reasonably small size (no bigger than a 20" tv) can be stored within
the mirror.  Anyone looking into the mirror will see no reflection
except the item reflected into infinity in both faces.  The same
command is used to return the item.
	While the item is stored, no force on earth can detect it.  It
simply does not exist in this particular plane of existence.  However,
finding the Compact is no problem.  If either face is shattered, the
mirror is lost forever.

Peyote-sticks:  (Level 1 Fetish) Resembling normal tobacco
cigarettes, a Garou who smokes them can form images within the
smoke that all can see.  First, those viewing must smell the smoke. 
Next, the Garou must think of an image, and roll Wits+Artistic
Expression (diff 5) to create the shapes.  The more complex the
image, the greater the difficulty.  Trying to show a generic Garou in
Crinos is Diff 5, while trying to emulate the Sistine Chapel in toto is
at least a level 9.  Finally, the size of the image is limited to the
amount of smoke in the air.  A whole Garou can be depicted, but in
a reduced state only.
	Note first that there is no actual peyote in the sticks; it is a
weird mixture of dried four leaf clovers, tobacco, and animal dung. 
Next, there are about 4 images in each stick.  The name is derived
from the belief of some sleepers that the smoke made them see the
images.

Explosive Cigs:  A toy a hunter developed to take out annoying
Toreadors forever bumming cigarettes off him right before he
followed them into an alley and cacked them.  In the middle of the
cigarrette is a shaped charge of C-4.  The fuze is designed in suc a
way to only light when exposed to high heat:  i.e., when a smoker
breathes in the cig.  This ensures that the charge will go off while the
smoker is taking a puff.  The charge is placed to go off after the
fourth drag, or if the cigarrette has been left burning 2 1/2 minutes. 
The blast power is 4.
	Other variations include charges consisting of White
Phosphorus (3 health levels), Magnesium (immediate Rotschreck
roll,  diff 7), a charge simialr to exploding cigars which replace the
confetti with silver dust, and finally, the Fidel Castro/Crinos special,
one that contains a depillatory charge.

The Cigarello Case:  No one knows precisely who fashioned this
case, but it has saved more lives than Obfuscate.  It is an innocuous
cigarette case, silver plated, and enchanted to make the monogram
of the current possessor appear on the cover.  It will keep a supply
of twenty cigarrettes fresh indefinitely.  
	Its most curious power, however, is its ability to deflect a
single fatal blow aimed at the owner.  This can be anything from a
gunshot to a stake.  When an attack that would normally kill the
owner is aimed, the attacker get the urge to fire/attack the heart. 
Since it makes sense, the attacker will usually do this.  Roll
Willpower, Diff 9 to resist).  The Case then absorbs five successes,
and adds 5 soak dice.  The Case provides no protection if the
attacker knows of the Case, and knows it will protect the owner. 
Note that if the attack is larger than the area of the case (such as an
explosion), or if there is no logical way the Case can deflect the
attack, the Case has no effect.
	After saving its Owner, the Case is strangely often given
away or lost, ready to help the next owner.

Pocket Lint: (Entropy 5 Matter 5)  The product of a Sons of  Ether
Experiment gone horribly wrong, pocket lint is the substance that the
entire universe is devolving into.  By soaking the lint in a point of
Quintessence, the lint can reform into anything "lost (misplaced,
destroyed)" by the user personally.  The mass of the lint is
conserved, so to get back that 1963.5 Mustang, the Mage is going
to have to save a _lot_ of lint.

Imaging Crystals (Level 1 Fetish):  These lumps of quartz seem
rather innocuous when found.  However, they are specially prepared
Fetishes which can trap the image of any event.  For instance, if the
user wishes to save a memorable moment, he merely hold up the
crystal, and feeds it a point of gnosis.  Everything in direct line of
sight is preserved to the perspective of the holder. Thus, if used in a
desert, with a Garou in line of sight 2 miles away, when the image
is reactivated, the distant Garou will not retain any image quality.  It
will be as distinct as can be distinguished 2 miles away (i.e. not at
all).  The point of the imaging crystals lies in that they can be
dedicated and taken to sites in the Umbra, to record long forgotten
scenes, to be used as evidence in Garou trials.  For instance, a
Garou wishes to find out of Running Sideways, a Past Life, really
ran away from a battle.  He must travel to the place in the Umbra
where the image is kept, and record the scene.  This can be an
adventure in itself, as the Garou must first search the Battlefields, the
Legendary Realm,  or even the Atrocity Realm, to discover where
the proper memory is kept.
	Duration of the image depends on how much Gnosis is
initially infused.  One will get you a single static image.  For every
point thereafter, five seconds of time is added.  To release takes but
a single point.

Blood Pens:  Resembling elegant fountain pens from long ago, blood
pens are used often to sign contracts between Kindred and other
denizens of the World of Darkness.  The pen initally seems to have
no ink.  However, a sudden pinprick, and the pen is writing.
	Any name on a contract is bound to the letter of the contract
as if a blood bond exists between it and the signor.  The Signor must
be aware of the exact letter of the contract, else it has no power. 
Thus, an obscure clause, if it conflicts with the letter of the contract,
is invalid.  For example, Tom is buying a cycle from Nick Scratch. 
Buried in the fine print is the clause:  I give my immortal soul to Nick
Scratch.  Since nothing exists within the clause to link the sale of the
bike to the surrendering of the soul, the clause is not valid.  Had the
clause said, "In addition to the above stated price, I also give my
immortal soul as payment in full,"  it would be keeping to the letter of
the Contract.  The signor must be able to read the contract in toto. 
If he chooses not to, it is his fault.
	Other than that, the signor must follow precisely what the
contract says.  He may fight it as a person resists a blood bond. 
One way of doing it is corrupting the Letter of the Contract with the
Spirit of the Contract.  By spending a point of Willpower, and
informing the ST of a possible loophole in the contract, the signor
can act on the loophole.  If enough loopholes can be found (from 5-
10), the contract is declared null and void.
	It is often good business for both parties to sign the contract
so that both sides must adhere to the Letter of the Contract. 
Unscrupulous Warlocks will often neglect to tell a Signor that he too
should sign the Contract.  If both names are on the list, neither party
may do anything to affect the other's enjoyment of his end of the
contract.  Thus, in exchange for Tom's money and soul, Beelzebub
must surrender the bike, and must allow Tom to enjoy the bike.  If
Tom should lose the bike without Beelzebub interfering, Beelzebub
may collect.  Neither side may willingly harm a Signor.  Often two
names will be simply signed on a blank piece of paper.  As long as
the paper exists, neither one can hurt the other.  Anyone can burn
the paper, but neither side can aid in its destruction.
	Using the pen consumes a blood point.
-- 
thanatos@interaccess.com        /  "I don't mind being the smartest man in
DeathUrge, Master of Unknown	\    the world.  I just wish it wasn't
Time and Space.			/     this one."  -Ozymandias
            "It's a Zen thing.  You wouldn't understand." 
