From nv91-asa@lurkers.nada.kth.se Thu Jun 30 13:06:17 1994
Date: Thu, 30 Jun 1994 13:05:02 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@lurkers.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Earth Help
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9406301302.A1631-0100000@lurkers.nada.kth.se>

Earth Help
----------

Earth Help is one of the largest environmental organisations
today.  The organisation try to prevent greedy corporations
and uncaring states from destroying the environment by
showing the public what they are doing, preferably in as
spectacular or disturbing way as possible. They film how seal
hunters club the cute pups. They reveal how landowners in
South America are supporting death squads to remove Indians
from their land. They organise peaceful protests against
nuclear dumping or deployment of nuclear weapons. They are
one of the Syndicates most dangerous weapons. 

Actually, the Syndicate supports many environmental
organisations. They are simply doing the dirty work for the
Syndicate in attacking its enemies, controlling public
opinion and changing the Market in useful ways. By making the
public demand more eco-friendly products, the Syndicate can
raise the prices and often use lesser quality of the raw
materials to get that "eco-look".  And the Technocracy can
even decided what products are good or bad for the
environment to suit their plans. The Progenitors (or their
pawns) simply publish research showing that something is (or
isn't) damaging the environment. Corporations and groups the
Syndicate doesn't like are attacked by the environmentalists,
and often forced to pay huge fines after their activities are
revealed.  Since the Syndicate has its tentacles everywhere,
it can provide the environmentalists with dirty insider
information about their targets, such as rumours about
dumping sites or secret pollution. 

By focusing on spectacular and newsworthy matters like cute
animals, dramatic actions or atrocities committed by ruthless
people Earth Help makes the environment fit the media. It
also causes public consciousness to focus upon issues the
Syndicate wants, not what really matters. After all, krill
can't compete with seal pups in the news. And the other
environmental organisations have to follow the trend, or else
be left behind with no sponsors or public support. 

But the most important use of Earth Help is to make lots of
profits.  Donating money to the environment is popular.
Everybody is doing it, it is "in". Children at school
organise door-to-door campaigns.  Many corporations want to
show that they are committed to a better world. Humanitarian
organisations like to help. Everyday people sometimes send in
some money, partially because they have a bit of bad
conscience knowing they aren't living very eco- friendly. But
donating some money stills the conscience quite well. 

Earth Help is really organised like a big international
corporation, although it doesn't look like it. Most members
are just support members, paying their dues and receiving the
Earth Help Newsletter. More devoted members handle the local
organisations, mostly matters of administration, lobbying and
research. Then there are groups of active members, which take
part in the direct actions against polluters. They climb
chimneys wielding banners, they film pollution, they hinder
dumping of toxic waste and do other spectacular and
newsworthy things. While their actions are illegal, Earth
Help has many good lawyers and the protection of public
support. Besides, Earth Help has never condoned any illegal
actions, and the members who do such things are always doing
it without the knowledge of the organisation. 

Over the local organisations, which are carefully designed to
be tax- exempt as philanthropic or charitable associations,
is a central international organisation, Earth Help
International. EHI runs the large scale planning, has
contacts to the United Nations and most of the largest
environmental groups. It is Earth Help's face on a global
scale, and is very good at appearing well in media. Its
spokespeople are all sincere, knowledgeable and convincing.
It also distributes the income from the local organisations,
investing much into Earth Help Foundation. Actually, the
Foundation *is* EHI and controls the organisation completely,
although its not apparent on the paper or even to most
members. 

The Board of Directors of the Foundation decide which
direction Earth Help should move in, what projects should be
encouraged and which local organisations should be helped.
They decide which local leaders to promote into the
international organisation or demote by sending them to far
off corners of the globe or into unimportant positions. The
Foundation also invest the money of Earth Help, apparently
only in ecofriendly investments. But there is great
difference between the apparent ecological responsibility and
real world. In practice the Foundation invests in things it
will make a profit out of, and then try to make the
investments look ethical. It uses several cleverly hidden
holding companies and daughter foundations to control several
corporations. 

Its on this level where the Syndicate really controls Earth
Help. At least one board member is a Syndicate Acolyte, and
most members have exactly the right mindset. Besides, the
Syndicate control a lot of the owned corporations too, and
own much of the capital invested in the Foundation. The
founder, who currently has retired to the Caribbean, has
become very rich in using the resources of Earth Help for his
own profit. And by designing everything carefully, its even
legal. 

Its impossible to attack Earth Help. Anybody who criticises
the organisation indirectly criticises all environmental
organisations. He will get a massive public opinion against
him, and most people tend to assume that he is secretly paid
off by the Polluters. There is practically nothing illegal
going on in the organisation, and the actual illegal actions
are dubbed "Active Civil Disobedience", which makes most
people regard them in a much more positive light. And finding
the dirt on the EHI would require the researcher to evade the
subtle traps of the Syndicate. And even if he can find any
dirt, most accusations will simply not stick due to the good
reputation of Earth Help. 

Theme:
Hypocrisy and sincerity. Earth Help doesn't really help the
environment very much. All their actions are directed towards
showing the public what is going on, but very little is
actually done to help nature. Instead the generally sincere
and reasonable members help further the cynical manipulations
of the Syndicate. 

Mood:
Political Correctness driven to an extreme. Spokespersons
carefully selected from minorities, except when the impact
wouldn't be good.  Non-sexist language. Friendly fanatism for
the environment.  Idealism as an armour and weapon. 

Story Ideas: 

Earth Help is used to attack the local Verbena. An Earth Help
team films the remains after a ritual, adds a bit of footage
of other dead animals and clips it together with some
standard neopagans (including an interview where one member
explains that they sometimes use a little blood in their
rituals). This biased but actually formally correct footage
is then dispatched to the media, causing a public outcry
against neopaganism, which people start to think encourages
animal sacrifices (and God knows what else...).  Any
objections and protests can be easily dismissed either by
"No, we're not claiming all neopagans perform animal
sacrifices. There are obviously just some who does." or "Do
you really defend people who do *this*?" (show picture of
horribly mutilated animal). How to defend your reality when
everybody feels disgusted about it? 

The Syndicate sends Earth Help against Pentex. By documenting
certain of the activities of the subsidiaries they cause
massive public outcry. Will the Traditions help Earth Help
attack Pentex in their area, when they know this will
strengthen the grip of the Syndicate over the economy. 

If the players are involved in environmentalism they might
meet Earth Help close up. After they have discovered a local
waste dump, Earth Help appears and quickly starts to make the
media notice it.  At first the players will undoubtedly like
cooperating with Earth Help, which is very good at making the
public aware of the problem. But sooner or later they will
start to realise that the organisation is merely interested
in this, not in helping cleaning it up. And Earth Help has a
tendency to simply take over all situations and use them to
further their own goals. 

An ex-member of Earth Help runs for the local elections. She
has an intense green profile, and has massive support by the
organisation.  She is charismatic, intelligent and seemingly
unpolitical. "I only want one thing. An end to the rape of
nature around here.". If she wins she will start to act to
protect the environment, which will require some rather
repressive means. But everyone gladly agrees since its for
the good of every living being... and for the Technocracy.
Old and inefficient industries are forced to leave and are
replaced by modern ones fitting Technocratic Reality better. 
Public control and environmental surveillance are increased
to "nail the polluters". Restoration projects efficiently
remove or tame nodes and ley-lines. How to stop her? She is
after all doing something for the environment... 




-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




