From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Mon Oct 11 20:08:04 1996
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller
Path: news.kth.se!solace!news.stealth.net!news.ibm.net.il!arclight.uoregon.edu!feed1.news.erols.com!howland.erols.net!www.nntp.primenet.com!nntp.primenet.com!cs.utexas.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!usc!newshub.cts.com!atmnet.net!news.sprintlink.net!news-ana-7.sprintlink.net!eskimo!godot
From: godot@eskimo.com (Steven Brandt)
Subject: Another look at Euthanatos
X-Nntp-Posting-Host: eskimo.com
Message-ID: <Dz4nxH.5Kn@eskimo.com>
Sender: news@eskimo.com (News User Id)
Organization: Eskimo North (206) For-Ever
Date: Fri, 11 Oct 1996 20:08:04 GMT
Lines: 75

I find a lot of confusion and misconception about the Euthanatos
tradition.  Presumably, this will all be cleared up when the Tradition
book is released... but meanwhile, it's a pain in the butt.

The fact is that the philosophical beliefs of the Euthanatos just don't
get much press in the Western world.  Most Storytellers I've encountered,
trying to explain the unusual practices of this tradition, mumble
something about vaguely Eastern belief systems, and leave it at that.
Meanwhile, the Euthanatos end up played as mage versions of the Assamites
and House Scathach members... the generic silent-but-deadlies no modern
action game should be without.

Yeah, it's fun playing the Badass Killer From Shadows, but let's not
forget that these guys are mages, with the same philosophies and hopes for
Ascension as the rest.

I recently ran across a passage in the Upanishads that illustrates
Euthanatos philosophy extremely well (IMO), and I quote it here.  The
Upanishads, by the way, are highly recommended to anyone interested in
playing this tradition--they represent the Hindu mythology, easy to read
and yet beautifully inspirational.

In this tale, Nachiketa is a wise disciple of a foolish father, who
piquantly sacrifices his son to Death.  Unperturbed, Nachiketa swears to
keep his father's obligation, and goes to meet the King of Death.

Death is not at home when Nachiketa arrives; and to make amends for his
poor hospitality, Death offers Nachiketa three boons when he returns.
Nachiketa asks first that he can return to the land of the living, and
that his father will not be upset at his temporary death; second, that he
be taught a special rite that will bring the faithful to Heaven.  Death
consents to both, and asks his third boon.

	"And then Nachiketa considered within himself, and said:
	"'When a man dies, there is this doubt: Some say, he is; others
say, he is not.  Taught by thee, I would know the truth.  This is my third
wish.'
	"'Nay,' replied Death, 'even the gods were once puzzled by this
mystery.  Subtle indeed is the truth regarding it, not easy to understand.
Choose thou some other boon, O Nachiketa.'
	"But Nachiketa would not be denied.
	"'Thou sayest, O Death, that even the gods were once puzzled by
this mystery, and that it is not easy to understand.  Surely there is no
teacher better able to explain it than thou--and there is no other boon
equal to this.'
	"To which, trying Nachiketa again, the god replied:
	"'Ask for sons and grandsons who shall live a hundred years.  Ask
for cattle, elephants, horses, gold.  Choose for thyself a mighty kingdom.
Or if thou canst imagine aught better, ask for that--not for sweet
pleasures only, but for the power, beyond all thought, to taste their
sweetness.  Yea, verily, the supreme enjoyer will I make thee of every
good thing.  Celestial maidens, beautiful to behold, such indeed as were
not meant for mortals--even these, together with their bright chariots and
their musical instruments, will I give unto thee, to serve thee.  But for
the secret of death, O Nachiketa, do not ask!'
	"But Nachiketa stood fast, and said: 'These things endure only
till the morrow, O Destroyer of Life, and the pleasures they give wear out
the senses.  Keep thou therefore horses and chariots, keep dance and song,
for thyself!  How shall he desire wealth, O Death, who once has seen thy
face?  Nay, only the boon that I have chosen--that only do I ask.  Having
found out the society of the imperishable and the immortal, as in knowing
thee I have done, how shall I, subject to decay and death, and knowing
well the vanity of the flesh--how shall I wish for long life?
	"'Tell me, O King, the supreme secret regarding which men doubt.
No other boon will I ask.'
	"Whereupon the King of Death, well pleased at heart, began to
teach Nachiketa the secret of immortality."


Just think of this the next time you scoff at that death mage with his
bones and voodoo dolls.  You're looking at someone who's been in Death's
house and learned his secrets; someone who can see right through the
illusions of your physicality and into your soul.

Have a nice day.


