From: datawolf <datawolf@inconnu.org>
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: Re: Euthanatos was Re: Dirty Secrets of the Black Hand
Date: 30 Aug 1995 17:16:44 GMT
Organization: Inconnu
NNTP-Posting-Host: dtw-3.rust.net
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Mailer: Mozilla 1.1PE (Windows; I; 16bit)

Torsten Beck <praktika@rummelplatz.uni-mannheim.de> wrote:

>I don't think it's a stupid choice to vote for Euthanatos. These people
>at least KNOW what they have to do to make the world a better place...
>AND they do mix very well with Vampires (if the Kindred aren't too afraid
>of yourself, as it happened to me...)

The Euthanatos definately can be a challenge to play.  They're also 
probably the least developed of the Traditions (which is why I'm just 
itching to get my mits on their Trad book, though I've also heard that 
they're going to be elaborating a little in Mage 2nd.)

I currently work under my own impression of that the beliefs of the 
Euthanatos are, which might very well be a lot more enlightened than 
they're actually supposed to be (though, to be sure, most Euthanatos in 
my games understand the following either partially or imperfectly.. it's 
rather complicated.)

The question really is, why do Euthanatos kill people?  They certainly 
don't do this gratuitously (usually) and it's been noted that they 
consult each other frequently about this.  More directly to the point, 
what are the criteria they follow when choosing to administer the Good 
Death?

It's my opinion that the more enlightened Euthanatos rely heavily on Time 
magicks, or consult those among their peers who are skilled in this 
Sphere, when making these decisions.  The Euthanatos have a Rote (which I 
will detail at the end of this message) which help them to determine the 
destiny (not necessarily the Background Trait) of the individual, both 
Earthly and spiritual.

Does the individual have anything important left to accomplish?  Will his 
life, if continued, benefit humanity or hinder it?  Are their any 
signifigant roles left for this "actor" to play on the "stage" of the 
world?  More importantly, will this person come closer to his own 
personal Ascension if he continues to lead his life, or will he stray 
farther from it?  Is his "well of life" empty yet?

Also, what will happen to the soul of this person after death?  Is he 
doomed to the Shadowlands?  Will he Transccend, or sink into Oblivion?

Choosing a recipient for the Good Death shouldn't be a casual or easy 
thing.  Some cases are easy to determine, such as a the terminally ill or 
utterly evil.  In most cases, a brief glimpse into the future of the 
person will give an answer.  It should also be a patient thing.  The 
question of "when" should be just as important as "if."  Perhaps a 
terminally ill person will accomplish something signifigant even from his 
deathbed. In these cases, one must wait until the correct time comes.  
Perhaps even a serial killer might be destined to perform some action 
which raises public awareness of a signifigant problem, though this may 
not be his intent.  

This "formula" can also work in bizzare ways occasionally.  It might 
occur that a Euthanatos will run across a suicidal person who is NOT 
ready to die, who would go on to perform some important act or achieve 
some great accomplishment.  Though it might seem ironic, it does make an 
eerie sort of sense that a Euthanatos might be found talking some poor 
kid down from a ledge.

The Euthanatos also believe in cycles of life and death.  It should be of 
major importance that a Euthanatos not kill another who is destined to be 
caught in between, or even perhaps aid those who are doomed to die.. in 
such a way that they will not be stranded in the Shadowlands when it 
happens.  If a person has achieved all he is destined to accomplish, and 
will not benefit from living further.. it should be seen as equally 
important that those who are ready to Transcend upon death be sent on 
their way.

The Euthanatos I've played have all used this Rote, or consulted others 
of their Tradition who know it if they havn't yet achieved the skill.  
Judge for yourself wether or not it seems appropriate.

Delving the Well of Life (Time 2, Spirit 1, Entropy 1, Life 1, 
Correspondance 2)

The Rote allows the user to look deeply into the destiny of the subject. 
Though there are personal variations, the usual model is to view the 
lifespan as a strand, containing moments of the individuals past and 
future history.  Time, Life, and Correspondance are used to formulate the 
"strand" which represents the person, while Entropy is used to determine 
the level of Entropy which the present and remaining lifespan will incur 
on whole of reality.  Those with important things to do and accomplish 
which will further benefit the world have brilliant, distinct threads.  
When the life has run its course, and the level of Entropy begins to 
increase, they become dim and indistinct.  Finally, Spirit is used to 
determine what the state of the soul would be if Life were to be 
terminated.  Those who would Transcend end their strands in a brilliant 
flash.. those who are destined for Oblivion vanish with no trace.  When a 
person is destined to do neither, it blurs away but does not vanish 
entirely.  Other variations on this Rote use different means of 
symbolism, often culturally based.  This Rote does not function on 
Kindred, but there are variants which would accomplish the same effect.

The final question which is inevitably asked is.. why are the Euthanatos 
still misunderstood?  If they were but to explain these things to other 
Mages, shouldn't they understand?  The answer seems to be that some do, 
but many don't.  Life and death are "hot topics" and are viewed very 
differently by different people.. and they're highly emotional subjects 
when taken in this context.  Euthanatos must learn to be coldly rational 
about it (when making the important decisions anyhow) but most other 
Mages have neither the opportunity or need to learn this trait.  Though 
they might try to explain the reasons behind their actions, most others 
are blinded to the truth of the matter by their own emotions and 
irrationalities when confronting the topic.  While some few Euthanatos 
persist in trying to be understood, most wearily give up and cease to be 
overly concerned by the moral judgements of their associates.  Obviously, 
none of this adds to their popularity (and obviously doesn't help their 
image any,) but popularity really isn't part of the business they're in.
                                          mailto:datawolf@rust.net       
     

