     Aurelius' Official Euthanatos Paradigm Page:
     
     **** EUTHANATOS ****
     
     THE GREAT WHEEL (The Tellurian)
     
     The entire universe is simply a wheel that rotates forever on its 
     mystical axis.  All things are part of this Great Wheel, and all 
     actions are simply part of the overall turning of the wheel, or the 
     Cycle.
     
       *Turning (or Guiding) "the Wheel" (Magick):  The Euthanatos and 
       their kind are able to exert their will upon the Great Wheel and 
       turn it as they desire for their own ends.
       
       *Infants (Sleepers):  Those who have never yet glimpsed the 
       Shadowlands.
       
       *The Reaping (The Awakening):  The moment at which a dead individual 
       has the Caul torn from his face so that he may see the Underworld 
       for what it is.
       
       *Guides (Mages):  Those individuals who have undergone the Reaping 
       and have since learned how to Turn the Wheel at will.
       
       *Turning in the Fog (Coincidental Magick):  A means of Turning the 
       Wheel so that the act of doing so is masked by a Fog, keeping the 
       Infants from realizing what has happened.
       
       *Soul (Avatar):  The true essence of the individual that cannot 
       "die", per se, but can become destroyed by being dissoluted into 
       nothingness (Oblivion).
       
       *Eidolon (Arete):  A measure of a soul's enlightenment and strength 
       against its ignorant dark side, often called one's Shadow.  By 
       increasing one's Eidolon, Transcendence is made easier.
       
       *The Underworld (The Umbra):  The world beyond the mundane, one 
       which a soul must eventually traverse if one is to be reborn again.  
       For the Euthanatos, there is only one "Umbra", and that is the one 
       some call the Dark Umbra.  While they accept that others believe 
       that different Umbras may exist, for these Guides there is only the 
       one.  To "travel" to another would require intense study and a very 
       powerful alteration of their paradigm.  They believe others are 
       speaking of the same one, but simply use other terms and concepts, 
       perhaps not seeing it as "correctly" as the Euthanatos do.
       
       *Transcendence (Ascension):  The Euthanatos believe that when one's 
       soul completes The Journey through the Underworld, it can Transcend 
       and be reborn stronger than it was before.  This is the most 
       important goal of all, for only by Transcending can one's soul 
       continue on into the next Cycle.
     
     THE VENOUS STEPS (The Spheres)
     
     The Great Wheel is difficult to understand, but it can be grasped by 
     embracing and becoming familiar with the following concepts called The 
     Steps, or Venous Steps, after a legendary staircase leading down to 
     the very Axis of the Great Wheel, each step bringing one closer to 
     enlightenment.  It is said that great Charon himself reached the Axis 
     and upon his return brought the wisdom of the Cycle with him.
     
       *The Journey (Correspondence):  This knowledge is named for the 
       journey which the soul must make through not only this physical 
       life, but through the afterlife in order to reach its goal of 
       reincarnation.  This Step includes concepts of distance and 
       direction as well as views of placement.  It does not generally 
       cover ideas relating to size and volume, although some Euthanatos 
       have successfully incorporated such ideas after study with other 
       mages.
       
       *The Tempest (Entropy):  This Step is named for the notorious raging 
       storm of chaos that supposedly hinders a soul from reaching its 
       destination, thereby allowing it to achieve reincarnation.  While 
       the Tempest can be seen as a threat, it is necessary for the Great 
       Wheel to turn.  Without it, there would be no turning at all, and 
       the Cycle would cease.  Dissolution and decay are integral parts of 
       the Tempest, although new combinations are also the result of this 
       powerful storm.
       
       *Chains (Forces):  Every action requires interaction between things, 
       and these are referred to as the Chains that connect everything to 
       everything else.  By understanding these Chains, a mage may cause 
       interactions or stop them (breaking the Chains).  This knowledge 
       also allows one to see the Chains and to understand what they mean 
       for those things chained to one another.
       
       *The Quickening (Life):  While the Tempest often works to break down 
       the physical forms of a soul, it is the Quickening that works to 
       build them up again.  Understanding of the Quickening allows one to 
       "quicken" beings, making them healthy again.  It can also be used to 
       reverse such a process, a useful tool for bestowing the Good Death. 
       
       *Forgery (Matter):  This Step allows the seeker to grasp the concept 
       of how the Inertia of the Great Wheel can be forged into an 
       unlimited number of "non-quickened" things.  Forgery is sometimes 
       called "smithing", and mages who rely upon this knowledge very 
       heavily are often referred to as Smiths.
       
       *Masks (Mind):  Here in the world of the living, it appears that 
       everyone has a mind, or psyche, but the Euthanatos know that these 
       are only masks worn by the soul.  These masks give only hints of the 
       soul's true essence, but do allow the soul to be "recognized" on 
       this side of the Shroud.
       
       *The Axis (Prime):  Knowledge of the Axis of the Great Wheel gives 
       one the power to control it, making very powerful or permanent 
       "turns".  The Axis is the source of Inertia and therefore one of the 
       most crucial Steps to understand if one is to truly achieve 
       Transcendence.
       
       *The Afterlife (Spirit):  This Step embraces concepts of the soul 
       and the Underworld, focusing on what souls truly are and what they 
       are capable of.  A good understanding of the Afterlife lets one 
       actually "part the Shroud" and enter the Shadowlands, as well as to 
       summon forth those souls that have already gone there themselves.  
       The Euthanatos do not accept (like the Dreamspeakers and others) 
       that everything has a "spirit".  Such ideas are silly when one 
       considers the Tempest and the need of a strong will to resist its 
       temptation.
       
       *The Cycle (Time):  To undestand the Cycle itself is to understand 
       fate and the inevitable.  Concepts of destiny and possibility are 
       embodied in this Step and are useful for those who spend so much 
       time "guiding" others forward in their own Journeys.
     
     INERTIA (Quintessence)
     
     The Great Wheel turns on its Axis, giving rise to Inertia.  This 
     Inertia is the quintessential building-block of reality, and would 
     cease to exist if the Wheel stopped turning.  This would be Oblivion, 
     something that must be stopped at all costs.  The Euthanatos and other 
     "guides" are able to use their own will to "turn the wheel", thereby 
     using the resulting Inertia for their own ends.
     
       *Inertium (Tass):  Sometimes Inertia is not "put to use" and bleeds 
       off through the Shroud, appearing in the world of the living.  It 
       congeals upon contact with this pale reality, the Fog proactively 
       concealing it from the senses of the Infants that might stumble upon 
       it.  Those who have undergone the Reaping, however, may easily 
       recognize this discrete Inertia and use it to aid them in more 
       easily "turning the wheel".
       
       *Nexus (Node):  Wherever the Shroud is thin, a nexus might form.  
       These are the places where Inertium appears and where easy access to 
       the rest of the Great Wheel's Inertia may be had.  Souls on the 
       other side often haunt these sites, hoping to make contact with the 
       living.
     
     FRICTION/"HEAT" (Paradox)
     
     Whenever someone "turns the wheel" too much, the Great Wheel will 
     resist, resulting in friction.  This friction will "burn" whoever 
     tried to do the turning, the results ranging from literal burns to 
     being "caught in the spokes".
     
       *Burn (Paradox Flaw):  This is the most common consequence of 
       friction.  It can take the literal form of striated burns across the 
       mage's body or might simply "burn away" some otherwise normal part 
       of his life, the results being too varied to predict.
       
       *Flames (Paradox Spirits):  When the friction gets bad enough, it 
       seems to take on a mind of its own, seeming to actually "attack" the 
       offending mage.  These "attacks" are called flames.
       
       *Meltdown (Backlash):  Sometimes, if the friction is really bad, a 
       terrible Meltdown can occur, resulting in most horrible consequences 
       for whoever suffers from it.
       
       *Seeing Red (The Quiet):  When a Euthanatos has accumulated a great 
       deal of friction, he may begin to "see red" or "see a mirage", as 
       some say.  Illusory things will be perceived and nothing will seem 
       to make sense any more.  
     
     MISCELLANY
     
       *The Good Death:  Any death that results in the removal of a threat 
       to The Cycle.  This can mean that the victim was a direct threat to 
       the Euthanatos or simply that the victim's continued existence would 
       have been a hindrance to others achieving reincarnation.
       
       *The Gift (Awareness):  Those who receive the Gift are able to 
       glimpse the Great Wheel itself and see the world as it truly is.
       
       *Shroud (Arcane):  The degree to which the Shroud hides the 
       Euthanatos himself from the senses and psyches of others around him.
       
       *Omens (Dream):  The ability to recognize omens and to interpret 
       them successfully.
       
       
     I hope this helps everybody out there.  Please, any comments or 
     congrats would be appreciated.  Enjoy death y'all!!
     
     
     Aurelius, All Pondered Out (Still)
