From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Wed Jan 12 20:41:14 1997
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from gilbert.ucc.hull.ac.uk (gilbert.ucc.hull.ac.uk [150.237.128.199])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id UAA29479 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Sun, 12 Jan 1997 20:41:11 +0100
Received: from chopin.ucc.hull.ac.uk by gilbert.ucc.hull.ac.uk 
          with SMTP local (PP); Sun, 12 Jan 1997 19:40:58 +0000
Received: from mailhub1-remote.hull.ac.uk by mailhub1.hull.ac.uk           
          id <sg.00697-0@mailhub1.hull.ac.uk>; Sun, 12 Jan 1997 19:40:01 +0000
Date: Sun, 12 Jan 1997 19:39:58 +0000 (GMT)
From: "Christopher L." <C.J.Lamb@dcs.hull.ac.uk>
To: nv91-asa@nada.kth.se
Subject: Rotes (if you haven't got enough by now)
Message-ID: <Pine.SOL.3.91.970112193926.669A-100000@humus2.ucc.hull.ac.uk>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Sender: C.J.Lamb@dcs.hull.ac.uk




                    Euthanatos Rotes
                    by Christopher L.
                            
                            
     Black Dagger  (Life 1, Forces 2)
		by L.

     Named by the straightforward Euthanatos after its
most common focus, this rote is easily mastered by young
Disciples. As with most of the traditional rotes, it is
simple, effective and created to kill people. Taking a
knife suitable for throwing, the mage daubs it in the
substance of a bodily organ to prepare it. This is either
vitreous humour (eye), semen (genitals) or blood (heart).
This knife then acts as a focus for the magick. The mage
hurls the dagger at his enemy and it is drawn towards the
correct area. Of course it helps if the mage's aim  is
reasonable but the magick greatly increases his chance of
success.
     There are many very old daggers in use by the
Euthanatos, passed down from mentor to disciple. These
are often African throwing knives and use of one of these
ritual items can make the magick far more potent. Over
the centuries these blades have been stained distinct
colours. Yellow blades are drawn to the eye, white blades
fly for the genitals and the most common black daggers
pierce the heart.
     "Life magick identifies the target area, Forces
guides the blade towards it. Each success reduces the
difficulty of hitting the target area by one. The base
difficulties are normally eyes +3, groin +2 and heart +2.
Use of a knife with the appropriate resonance will reduce
the difficulty of the magickal success roll."

     Aura of Death  (Life 2)
		by L.

     Other traditions have noticed that wherever there is
a great disaster, the Euthanatos soon appear. And when
the Black Death broke out in the cities of Europe, the
Euthanatos came out in droves. Although the Euthanatos
could cope with the sight and stench of thousands of
rotting corpses, they needed some way to avoid
contracting the plague itself. Conducting this ritual
creates a kind of Death Field around the mage which kills
all minor life forms that come to close, such as fleas,
viruses, insects etcetera.
     This field is too weak to affect higher organisms
but other people do sense a kind of chilling effect
around the mage. There may be a way around this  but very
few Euthanatos actually care.
     "Life magick kills all simple life forms within two
feet of the mage.  Three successes are needed to activate
the rote and the effects last for one day."

     Death Mask  (Life 3, Matter 3)
		by L.

     This old rote recently became popular again after
the film Silence of the Lambs. Correctly used it is very
effective for infiltration. The Euthanatos carefully cuts
apart a fresh corpse and select the parts that he needs -
this always includes the face. He then places these over
his own body parts where they merge with his own flesh,
bonding into one entity. This rote makes him into a
perfect simulacrum of  the victim - face, fingerprints,
hair, as close as he desires. One variation on this rote
even enables him to speak like the deceased by consuming
the tongue. This melding also affects his life pattern,
sometimes enabling him to pass magickal detection.
     All of the attached parts are infused with his own
blood and actually become part of him. Therefore they do
not appear dead but the removal of the disguise is very
messy. It is even more bizarre if the mage was larger
than the victim because he appears to split out of the
smaller body (and like a snake, leaving the `skin'
behind). Quite frankly, it's rotes like this that get the
Euthanatos a bad name.
     "Life and Matter magick enable the blending of mage
and corpse. Minor cuts and abrasions that the corpse
sustained may be repaired but tissue damage e.g. burns
will increase the difficulty. Only two successes are
needed for a scene, but three will last for a day, four
indefinitely."

     Zombie, 'Orleans style  (Life 3, Spirit 4)
		by L.

     Euthanatos of Africa have been raising corpses as
long as anyone can remember and today, those who follow
this tradition still use the technique as a wonderful
source of servants. However, there now seem to be as many
rotes for doing this as there are mages. This particular
rote is believed to be the one used by the reknowned
Baron Samedi. Several voodoo priests are fond of it and
even sleepers have learnt the basic ritual. The word
Zombie does not actually mean an animated corpse in this
case however. It is still essentially a living human
being.
     The first stage of this rote is to find a suitable
subject and induce a state of suspended animation in him.
This may be done by magick but more usually a herbal
poison is used. The body is traditionally buried and left
for a while before being retrieved, but there is no
actual need for this. The poison brings the victim to the
point of death (without causing tissue damage) which
weakens the link between the body and the spirit. Most of
the rituals of the voodoo priest are solely for the
purpose of breaking this link. If too little poison was
administered then the link will be too strong to be
broken. Conversely, if too much was used then the body
quickly dies and is useless. Just as the link is at its
weakest (that is when the subject is about to die) the
mage quickly drives out the spirit if he can and then
hurriedly neutralizes the poison and drags the body back
to life. This is no easy task and mentors usually make
disciples practice on animals before progressing to
people. If successful then the mage has a living,
intelligent body with no soul - and thus no will of its
own - a Zombie.
     There are a number of problems facing the young
voodoo priest however. If he works too slowly then the
body begins to deteriorate before he can drag it back to
life. Without oxygen the brain rapidly suffers damage.
That is why so many Zombies are slow and a little dense.
The second problem is that although the Zombie has no
will of its own it has no particular loyalty. If anything
it just tends to obey the person that can shout the
loudest. Thus the Zombie needs to be trained. This
frequently but does not have to involve Mind magick.
Finally, a spiritless body is a walking invitation to any
passing Umbrood who fancies playing about in the `real'
world. It is like leaving a Ferrari around with the keys
in the ignition. To prevent this the mage seals the
Zombie against the Umbra. If all this is done then the
mage has an excellent servant / body-guard / dinner-date
or whatever.
     "This is an extended ritual. Firstly the victim must
be rendered deeply comatose (Life 4 or poison). Some
experience is needed to judge this correctly. Secondly
the spirit must be driven out (Spirit 4). At least 10
successes are needed; possibly more for those with strong
Avatars. Finally the body must be healed (Life 3). 4
successes are needed and must be achieved within one
turn."

     Enemy Within  (Correspondence 4, Life 3)
		by L.

     Many of the Euthanatos' intended victims have turned
out to have some surprising defences. Thus the Euthanatos
have had to come up with some surprising techniques of
assassination. During the long Akashic - Euthanatos war,
the famous assassin Delion came up against the equally
renowned Akashic Brother Raging Mountain. 'Mountain's
skin was invulnerable to all weapons and he was
unbeatable in combat. Taking the second problem first,
Delion simply attacked whilst 'Mountain was asleep. To
overcome his invulnerable skin however, Delion devised
this rote.
     It is when the sword slices through muscle tissue
and vital organs that it causes harm. Therefore it is
much more efficient simply correspond the blade inside
the victim and wave it about a bit at a distance. This
doesn't really do any more damage - after all, skin and
subcutaneous fat have never provided much of a barrier to
tempered steel - but it does overcome a surprising number
of magickal defences.
     "This rote follows normal Correspondence ranges."

     Guarding the Tomb  (Mind 2)
		by L.

     Few people would want to invade the privacy of a
Euthanatos mage but this rote was developed by them in
order to keep even these few away. During a long ritual
in which the Euthanatos sprinkles human ashes over the
chosen area, she creates an atmosphere of fear. The
degree of fear she produces is a matter of choice. A
subtle impression of unease will deter people without a
genuine reason to go there. A much greater effect will
create one of those places that have a bad reputation -
haunted cottages, dangerous alleys and the areas that you
just don't go. A very powerful mage or a cabal can create
a place that most sleepers cannot even approach,
certainly not without a very good reason.
     The trick is to gauge the right intensity. Too
little and anyone with a few beers inside them wont even
notice it; too much and the Men in Black will hear about
it. In modern times some people even seek out such
places. Coincidences can often be used in graveyards,
secluded glens and places of tragedy etcetera.
     Finally, this rote can be expanded to exclude
certain people, those who carry a special seal or any
other signal that the mage desires, although this will
require additional spheres. Nephandi also use a variation
on this rote, although theirs produces a more active
sense of evil.
     "Typically, in addition to successes needed for area
affected (which varies according to locale), two
successes would be needed for a subtle aura, five
successes for a very real sensation of fear and ten or
more to drive away determined trespassers."

     Shaking the Bones  (Entropy 2, Prime 2) or (Entropy 2, Time 4)
		by L.

     The Euthanatos are not usually very open about their
activities (which is probably very wise), and thus have
developed this rote for secret communication. The only
traditions to rival this system are the Akashics and the
Virtual Adepts.
     The Euthanatos often cast bones as a means of
divination and have developed a very sophisticated code
in the patterns they fall in. A Euthanatos wishing to
send a message uses her Entropy magick to influence the
way they fall and then locks this pattern into the bones
with Prime magick. Alternately the mage can use Time
magick to create a `one-shot' only set of bones. This
alternate version can also deliver different messages or
a number of different messages depending on some pre-
chosen circumstance, such as a question asked. These
bones are then delivered to the intended receiver. Most
mentors teach their disciples this code.
     "The more magickal successes achieved, the more
complex the message may be. Two successes produce a
simple message, such as `technocrats are on to us.' Six
successes would give details of numbers, locations,
battle plans and contingencies."

     Fatal Flaw  (Entropy 1, Mind 3)
		by L.

     Euthanatos are feared not only for their
ruthlessness but for their uncanny ability to find
people's weaknesses. This rote is widely used for that
very purpose. Many Euthanatos use this rote on friends as
well as enemies.- just in case.
     To perform the rote the Euthanatos searches the
victim's mind for psychological weaknesses - phobias,
hatreds, ambitions, doubts, anything that can be used
against him. She may have to take time with this rote to
get past mental shields or to perform it coincidentally.
     "Three magickal successes will reveal a major
weakness. Greater successes will provide more detail."

     Reaper  (Prime 3, Spirit 5)
		by L.

     Much of the Euthanatos tradition's magick draws its
energy from the dead. That is why Euthanatos cabals like
to perform rituals in cemeteries and on burial mounds. No
rote illustrates this better than the creation of a
Reaper.
     Requiring a master of Spirit and a disciple of Prime
to perform and preferably with many acolytes and
disciples, the Reaper is not an easy rote and is done
very rarely. Firstly the mages gather together in an area
dominated by dead spirits, such as a very large
graveyard, a battle-field or the site of some terrible
disaster. (the most recent site was a large field in
China where hundreds of prisoners are regularly
executed). The mages then begin to draw up the forgotten
spirits of the dead. These pitiful, barely conscious
things are gathered by the mages who slowly begin to
weave them together. Slowly, over the course of the
night, a patchwork monster of lost souls takes form. It
is the essence of death and can produce only death. Using
whatever magick they can to control it, the mages send it
out to kill their enemies. In the past it has been sent
after some powerful enemy or let loose to destroy whole
villages or towns. It is important to understand that the
Reaper is a near unstoppable force for death. It has, in
historical times, decimated entire chantries. Physical
barriers cannot stop it and only the most powerful or
ancient of wards can keep it at bay. Nothing can fly
faster than it.
     The strength of the Reaper depends upon the skill of
the mages who created it and on where they performed the
rote. Its strength is invariably vast however. The Reaper
is a monstrosity and the spirits of which it is composed
gradually fall away. Yet beyond a certain point, the
Reaper begins to feed upon the spirits of those it
murders, binding them into its own being. At this
`critical mass' point it is best to simply give up
attempts at restraining the monster and head for the
nearest horizon realm.
     "Many successes are required to create a Reaper.
More successes create a stronger Reaper (provided the
spirits are available), but too few successes simply
cause the entity to fall apart into hundreds of separate
spirits."

     Communion  (Spirit 2)
		by L.

     None of the tradition have the Euthanatos knack for
communicating with the dead; actually none of them want
it. Summoning up ghosts is usually easier than getting
rid of them. This rote goes back as far as anyone can
remember. Ancient Euthanatos would perform a bizarre
death dance as part of the funeral rites in order to ease
the deceased on their way. The modern followers of the
tradition perform the same dance to call the spirits up.
     Mages can call up a spirit knowing only its name,
but it is much easier if some link to the spirit can be
provided. This could be a favourite possession of the
deceased's, having a close relative or friend of the
deceased's present, right up to dancing on his grave
(very popular). If forced to the mage can attempt to
summon a spirit he does not know, e.g. `whoever died
here' but this is hard.
     Of course if the deceased is an active, haunting
spirit then this rote is absurdly easy.

     The Cursing  (Entropy 2, Mind 3)
		by L.

     Euthanatos mages do not always kill those who are
wasting their lives. Sometimes they punish them until
they mend their ways. This rote is a simple way of doing
just that. Entropic magick is used to produce a `Sod's
Law' effect on the victim, generated by his own
subconscious or conscious fears. If, for example, he is
worried about making a bad impression on his boss then he
is far more likely spill hot coffee on her or find his
watch is slow and he is half an hour late for the meeting
The effect only ends when the victim has changed his ways
(as defined by the mage to the victim).
     Bad luck is subjective however. this rote has failed
on HIT Marks because they have no desires or fears as
such. There was also one near legendary failure of this
rote when an extremely powerful Euthanatos cast it on a
young Akashic Brother to teach him a lesson. Using simple
Mind magick, the Akashic convinced himself that the worst
thing that could possibly happen would be for the
Euthanatos mage to die. An astonishing series of flukes
and chance events brought them face to face one more time
where, despite his best efforts, the Akashic accidentally
killed the Euthanatos.




	Okay, that's my own personal view of Euthanatos magick. I always 
think how the rote is performed matters just as much as the actual effect 
- that's why they tend to be a little bit long. Anyway they represent how 
I like to play Euthanatos magick myself, I hope you like them enough to 
stick them on your page. I've avoided doing any Euthanatos rotes that 
just affect chance with Entropy. And none of them are about improving a 
mage's aim with firearms. 
	I noticed that we both came up with a rote on the same principle 
as my 'Shaking the Bones' I can't remember what yours was called but it 
relied on affecting games of chance and included Correspondence. You may  
want to delete my version because of the similarity. I only noticed yours 
yesterday so we must both just be tuned in to the same part of the 
Universal Unconcious.
	Anyway, I just felt I'd like to share some of my ideas with the 
rest of the world and you definitely have the best gaming page I've seen. 
You've also got a link to a mate of mine's homepage (the interactive rote 
library). If you stick these on then I'll get some of my Nephandii rrotes 
typed up.

		Whatever,
			-Christopher L.



 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------



	"Last night I had a vision... Last night the devil appeared 
before me. And he said... he said - 'Chris, I want you to take 
over my job, because you're just so much more FUCKING EVIL than I am' and 
I said to him 'Satan - FUCK OFF!' Because I don't work for nobody...."






