How does a Jumbo Jet Fly?

Order of Hermes: The Preflight Checklist Ritual must be chanted, the correct
        Symbols must be indicated by Gesture, and the correct Numerological
        Readings must be made, and the Multiple Mandallas must be spun.

Akashic Brotherhood: By means of meditative ritual and the spinning of prayer
        wheels the correct mental attitude must be maintained by the pilots.

Verbena: The burning sacrifice of the blood of the Earth which is the refined
        essence of Ancient Creatures, combined with the Sympathetic
depiction of
        a Symbolised bird-shape.

Celestial Chorus: The One is Merciful.
        (How many passengers and crew offer up prayers at take-off? More than
        might admit it.)

Dreamspeakers: It is carried aloft by the great howling Technobane spirits
beneath
        it's wings. The Spirits of the air are fooled by it's disguise of a
great bird.

Son of Ether: Of course everyone knows how a turbojet works, but most don't
        realise the gravity-nullifying effect of multiple spinning objects,
which would
        be significant in a jet that size. I'm working on one now which
would have
        the same effect when spun by magnetic fields. Now if only I can
come up
        with a material strong enough to withstand 5.3 x 10E7 rpm...

Hollow One: Who cares? They just do.

Virtual Adepts: the wings and motors of course, but the complex patterns in
space
        formed by the internal circuitry and software can allow it to
manifest in
        cyberspace too.

Cult of Ecstasy: The pilot's high on caffeine, the engineer is high on
avgas fumes,
        the attendants are high on dope, and the passengers are high on
alcohol.        Who needs wings?

Euthanatos: The Entropy of the device is decreased temporarily at the cost
of more
        rapidly increasing Universal Entropy. This is an unstable
situation. However
        sometimes it stabilises unexpectedly, sending another three hundred
souls
        one step closer to Ascension.

(This is a humourous excersize in understanding how each Mage Tradition
thinks. Any further suggestions or examples would be welcome.)



