From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Thu Jun  3 17:02:43 1996
Status: RO
X-Status: DA
Received: from service1.cc.uky.edu (service1.cc.uky.edu [128.163.18.80])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id RAA28894 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Mon, 3 Jun 1996 17:02:40 +0200
From: kinesis@uky.campus.mci.net
Received: from [128.163.116.33] ([128.163.116.33]) by service1.cc.uky.edu (8.7.Beta.13/8.7.Beta.13) with SMTP id LAA22640 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>; Mon, 3 Jun 1996 11:02:37 -0400 (EDT)
Message-Id: <v02140b05add8848cf6d9@[128.163.116.33]>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
Date: Mon, 3 Jun 1996 11:02:38 -0100
To: nv91-asa@nada.kth.se
Subject: Foiling Time Magick

Foiling time magick Often times it seems like it's impossible build up any
mystery in a mage game what with having mages who can read the future and
the past. It has occured to me that there are ways that this ability can be
co-opted or subverted.

Arcane:
Subtracts dice from ALL perception rolls. Mages with high arcane are hard
to learn about and impossible to predict.(there's a reason why they haven't
been able to find Secret Agent John Courage.this guy is so arcane he can't
even find his socks.) Even if the mage in question is scrying an area that
the mage wandered into he might find himself confounded by the problem that
no matter where he is sensing the area from, for some reason he can't seem
to get a close look at the other mages face. Some clues might be gained
while the overall identity is still obscured.

Warding:
In mage second Ed. it is now possible to ward an area against temporal scrying.
middling to high level mages can do this.All the mage has to do is to think
of doing it before commiting whatever act he wants hidden.Powerful mages
can immunize themselves from scrying altogether. This form of "locking out"
has a fairly distinctive feel to it. Most mages can feel the background
prime running through the time ward. It's usually not a mystery to any mage
who encounters it more than once.

Sensory obscurement:
While this applies to kithain and obfuscated vampires it also applies to
trying to listen to two mages screaming at one another while a semi passes
by.
Just because you can cast your sensorium backwards or forwards in time
doesn't mean you can actually sense anything.

Disturbances:
Large amounts of released prime,such as a large battle,a paradox storm, the
awakening of a node,or a large Time effect going off can have a sort of blurring
effect on scrying.

Metaphorical visions:
Not all traditions view time in the same way. most technomagickal versions
of temporal scrying involve probability models and simulations designed to
virtually re-create the event. this then is stored and re-played at
leisure.
often changing the angles of viewing. Some simply cast their minds back or
forward into time and see what they see. But some paradigms are difficult
insofar as they might not give a literal translation of future or past
events.
   Dreamspeakers for example must often petition the spirits for their
time-sight. They might ask the rock to share his sight (thus filtering the
events through the rock perceptual filter.) or he might ask the fates or
maybe a time elemental to show him the events to come. Even this might be
unclear or cryptic. and in all cases there is the question of chiminage.
   Cultists sometimes have problems with needing to reach an altered state
in order to see the time lines and then having difficulties with
interpreting the outcome.("Well...All I saw was this big flounder eating
bob's soul...I'm not sure what to make of that.")

Divinatory methods:
Often whenever I can I try to work real world divinatory methods into a story.
some can tell you much more than others and can occasionaly send you in new
direction. but they never ever give you a completely straight answer.

Too much information:
Scrying the past is fairly straightforward. The past has become concrete,
whereas the future still remains abstract. Thus when looking ahead Time
mages often speak of Paths, or Threads, or Frames. (" in six out ten frames
I see you getting killed if you break from cover.")
  The further that a mage looks the more branches in the timeline are seen
until he inevitably suffer information overload.(I.E. a blinding headache
and possibly a bout of quiet.) In some case, depending on the individual or
destiny in question. scanning an area of time ahead one hour is sufficient
for this kind of breakdown.(just try it on a marauder if your feeling
froggy)
   also, even a simple reading ahead can be misleading. Just because you
see something happening in 6 out of ten frames doesn't mean that's what's
going to happen. Likely,yes. Probable,sure. Written in stone,not on your
life.
  Those mages with a destiny score are often harder to read than others.
sometimes there are so many threads tied up in one period of time it
becomes a veritable gordian knot.

Personal transformations:
Often, Time mages have some difficulty reading themselves. Often the Avatar
intentionaly keeps information from the mage. Especially in the case of
some types of learning expiriences. There might be clues and hints but your
avatar refuses to spoon feed the future to you.

Pete Sears(Kinesis@uky.campus.mci.net)
"Heh..Rectum? Damn near KILLED e'm!"
-from the Silicon Sermons of Reverend X.S.Kinesis


