From owner-wod-l@netcom.com  Wed May  8 02:04:34 1996
Received: from kth.se (kth.se [130.237.72.201])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id CAA11973 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Wed, 8 May 1996 02:04:23 +0200
Received: from mail6 (root@mail6.netcom.com [192.100.81.142])n
	by kth.se (8.7.5/8.7.3) with SMTP
	id CAA21326 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Wed, 8 May 1996 02:03:49 +0200 (MET DST)
Received: (from daemon@localhost) by mail6.netcom.com (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id MAA13321; Thu, 2 May 1996 12:54:46 -0700
Received: from atc.boeing.com (atc.boeing.com [130.42.28.80]) by mail6 (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id MAA12851; Thu, 2 May 1996 12:53:20 -0700
Received: by atc.boeing.com (5.65/splinter.boeing.com)
	id AA04230; Thu, 2 May 1996 12:50:40 -0700
Received: from runt.ca.boeing.com by splinter.boeing.com with ESMTP
	(1.37.109.16/16.2) id AA232336740; Thu, 2 May 1996 12:52:20 -0700
Received: by runt.ca.boeing.com (940816.SGI.8.6.9/931108.SGI.ANONFTP)
	 id MAA10637; Thu, 2 May 1996 12:52:06 -0700
From: "Corwyn J. Alambar" <cja8174@runt.ca.boeing.com>
Message-Id: <9605021252.ZM10635@runt.ca.boeing.com>
Date: Thu, 2 May 1996 12:52:03 -0700
X-Mailer: Z-Mail (3.2.0 26oct94 MediaMail)
To: mage-l@oracle.wizards.com
Subject: The Frontier Alliance - Mortals in N CA by Night
Cc: gm-l@netcom.com, wod-l@netcom.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Sender: owner-wod-l@netcom.com
Precedence: list
Reply-To: wod-l@netcom.com
Status: RO
X-Status: 

Here we find ourselves with a group of mundane individuals, gathered around a
common goal, that just happen to be caught in the middle of the Ascension
War.  Life is very interesting for those who live on the edge of tomorrow.

(Note:  This is posted to mage-l because it is a group most influenced by the
magi of the Bay Area.  Sorry for any confusion this may cause)

The Frontier Alliance
Mortal Technologists in Northern California

The Bay Area is one of the greatest centers of learning and technological
advancement in the United States, or even in the world.  With Stanford,
Silicon Valley, Berkeley, the biotech firms of San Mateo, ILM, and more, they
are on the cutting edge of everything technologic.  Needless to say, it takes
more than supernatural beings to make such an engine of creation work as
potently as it has.

There exists a small but growing non-profit organization, the Froteir
Alliance, that analyzes new technologies, new lines of sceintific inquiry,
and tries to extrapolate what the future will hold for humanity... And how to
shape the most optimal future from current advances.  The Frontier Alliance
has identified some of the most potent trends, years in advance of their
introduction, and extrapolated some stunning models of the future based upon
what information they have today.

Vanguards of the Future Mind

The Frontier Alliance has existed since the 1940s, an outgrowth of a council
created by the military to study emerging technologies from World War II
Germany.  THey successfully predicted the bomb three years before it was
successfully fired, and quickly found themselves in high demand by the
policymakers of the time.

The end of the war brought many of them out of military and into the private
sector, but they continued to stay in contact with their colleagues.  The
letters that went back and forth became voluminous, eventually collecting
into a journal, Outpost on the Scientific Frontier, with each member
contributing a single article in each monthly edition.

Soon, bright young students were encouraged to join in, and this process of
passing information back and forth led to some amazing insights, including
the prediction of room temperature superconductors and manned space colonies
years before such things were considered feasable.

More importantly, however, the group discusses society and social structures
that would be caused by these technologies.  Their image has evolved over the
course of decades, into a form of technolibertarianism, coupled with an
economic ideology based firmly on the works of Ayn Rand.  Many of them are
social Darwinists and strong believers in pure libertarianism.

Attempts to convert these mortal scientists to either the Traditions or the
Technocracy has met with mostly dismal failure.  Their methods are intensely
rigorous, with a firm grounding in modern sceintific theory, yet they do not
believe that technology will be an oppressive force, and fight surveilance
technologies, etc., by discussing and in some cases even building jamming
devices and similar technologies.

The Post-Modern Alliance

Today, the Frontier Alliance consists of many different thinkers, including
brilliant economists, sociologists, psychiatrists, and even religious leaders
as well as the traditional representatives of the hard sciences.  Anyone is
encouraged to join in the discussion, which takes place via a modified site
on the WWW, but anyone who does not show knowledge of her subject, and a
scientific rigor to her logic, will be quickly overwhelmed, or at worst
ignored, by the rest of the members.

Oftentimes the members of the Alliance will get together at impromptu
meetings, coffee house gatherings they only somewhat jokingly refer to as
Symposia.  Here they get into (sometimes heated) discussions about the nature
of technology, the evolution of society, and the direction in which
advancements will take place over th next fifteen to fifty years.  Each
Symposium has a theme to it, often something generic such as Life Extension,
but the discussion is often freeform and very wild and insightful.  Some
members have gotten in the habit of recording these sessions and tracking
down references and information to prove or disprove a certain point.

Brilliance Is As Brilliance Does

This group has had an incredible impact on scientific advancement and public
policy, asmany of the members are research scientists for soem of the major
corporations and universities.  Using these massive resources available they
engage in a sort of cooperative race to develop the next breakthrough
technology, the next little bauble that could change the nature of humanity
as a whole.

They have attracted a few, mostly silent, members of Iteration X, the Virtual
Adepts, the New World Order, and the Sons of Ether, who watch carefully for
signs of Awakenable talent or just brilliant insight.  Many of the members of
this group have been groomed at one time or another by at least one of the
major factions, and some have gone on to become full-fledged magi in their
own rights, though many of them continue their researches in a mundane
fashion, prefering to use the established tools rather than paradigm
engineering to accomplish their goals.

Sometimes the outside world hears of one of their discussions, or a paper is
jointly submitted to an outside journal and the Outpost.  In cases such as
these, there is often a major uproar, since it seems to the rest of the world
to be a quantum leap in theory, with earthshattering consequences.  Sometimes
these leaks are planned, but often are totally accidental.

Areas of Inquiry

The Frontier Alliance has sponsored entire conventions to discuss the
technologies, and more importantly the impact, behind several areas of
scientific inquiry.  As such, they have several "Working Groups" that focus
tightly on certain areas of scientific inquiry.

Hot issues, such as Life Extension, Artificial Intelligences and Cognitive
Science, Space Exploration and Colonization, Nanotechnology, Very Large Scale
and Megascale Engineering, and Electronic Currency, have drawn some of the
most heated debates, as well as the most intense scrutiny from the Traditions
and the Technocracy.  Many of their ideas have been achieved in secret SoE
and IX laboratories, but many others have actually spawned Awakened inquiry
along those theoretical lines.

A Future Out of Control

This group holds a secret hope for the Tradition magi that know of its
existence, because they see many of the ideas held by the Virtual Adepts and
the Sons of Ether bearing fruit in the minds of some f the most briliant
mundane researchers.  Coupled with their very anti-authoritarian point of
view and the pursuit of infinite personal empowerment, this makes them very
attractive to many of the members of the Traditions.

Coversely, many members of the Technocracy view these humans as the most
major threat since Quantum Mechanics.  They eschew many of the social ideas
of the New World Order, and they often ride roughshod over any kind of
control, even the most modest form of direction.  Some members of the
Technocracy, however, are pleased to see their ideas pushed forward so far
without their intervention, and believe they see true Mass Ascension on the
horizon.

Meanwhile, the members of the Frontier Alliance still write about a future
they see, or at least that they would like to see.  Any mention of magic is
scoffed at almost from the start, though discussion of anomalous quantum
events and loopsed wormholes and nanomachines taking apart and reassembling
entire planets are discussed almost without a second thought.

*****

So, it's a little different... Comments, criticisms, etc., encouraged.

-Corey

-- 
It is even true of certain ideas, as of certain predatory species, that
they can subsist only as long as the species of idea on which they prey
subsists in sufficient number.
     - Bertrand De Jouvenel, _The Art of Conjecture_

