The magickal furniture of the Oracle Belinda
	I am not one to invite flattery, but I have been within the
private residence and realm maintained by the Oracle Belinda somewhere on
the Horizon.  The Oracle herself is a delightful mage, though she does
tend to terribly obscure puns in ancient languages.  What makes her realm
so truly unique however, is the furniture within it.
	On my first visit to the Oracle's realm I was greeted at the front
door by the coat rack.  Though it uttered not a sound, and my rather well
honed senses could detect no spirit of any kind inhabiting the polished
wood, it's various wooden arms move with swift grace to help me out of my
coat and then hang it on one of it's arms as it silently gestured for me
to enter the sitting room.
	Once in the sitting room the tea pot greeted me with a steamy
whistle and then levitated to pour tea into one of the impatiently waiting
cups of exquisite china.  Then the couch moved slightly and then molded
itself to the contours of my body as I sat down on it.  Point in fact my
conversation with the Oracle Belinda was much more difficult because of
the "helpfulness" of the furniture which inhabits her realm.
	I thought nothing of the furniture after leaving her realm, but
recently encountered a table and trio of chairs in the Umbra that could
have only come from her realm.  They were extremely happy to see me and
were very insistent about escorting me the the Oracle's realm which had
obviously been attacked and severely damaged but some force.  I am not
certain I truly wish to encounter a force or being which can safely
assault and defeat an Oracle in her own realm, but the furniture is quite
insistent that something must be done to rescue their owner.  But in the
meantime they are attempting to repair the realm as best they can,
approaching mages of the Traditions when something proves beyond their
abilities.
	So, if you are in the Umbra some day and a nightstand, coat rack,
chair or other piece of furniture approaches you be cautious but not too
careful.  After all, it is an Oracle that they represent and at the moment
require only a bit of aid here and there from the mages they approach.  It
is when they finally find the Oracle Belinda that things will become
extremely difficult.
	{Mechanics: There's very little that mere Adepts or Masters can do
to effect these bits of furniture.  They are a bewildering mixture of
Life, Matter, Spirit, Mind and Prime that merely hints at the range and
power of what an Oracle can do.  They can be destroyed, but other then
that effecting them is simply too complex.  What happened to the Oracle
Belinda is left completely in the hands of the Storyteller, but remember
one thing.  If she as an Oracle can create such incomprehensibly magick as
her furniture and then be snatched away in the midst of her own realm. 
Whatever did that to her must be even more powerful then she is.  Think
about it.}
