Path: news.kth.se!admin.kth.se!celsiustech.se!seunet!news2.swip.net!plug.news.pipex.net!pipex!tank.news.pipex.net!pipex!in2.uu.net!newsfeed.pitt.edu!dsinc!news.ee.vill.edu!shrsys.hslc.org!moolick
From: moolick@shrsys.hslc.org
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller
Subject: Son of the Ether Gizmos
Date: 23 SEP 95 22:35:23 GMT
Organization: MIT PLASMA FUSION CENTER
Lines: 47
Message-ID: <23SEP95.22352352@shrsys.hslc.org>
NNTP-Posting-Host: shrsys.hslc.org


	I'm wonder what people consider standard equipment in a Son of the 
Ether Lab.  Here are a few things I think of:

	Extension cords - and lots of them.
	Duck Tape - holds everything together.
	A big Generator - MORE POWER!!! Bwahahahaha!
	Tesla Coils - gives good mad-scientist lighting.
	A good "Control Panel" - with knobs, dials, and buttons galore.
	A nice sound system, tapes of a raging thunderstorm - for mood.
	A "frankenstein switch" - to pull for big effects.
	Spare lab coats - always have a clean lab coat on hand in case
		something important happens by.
	Readouts with the glass covers off - so you can change the readings
		as needed.
	A skylight - OK, more of a feature of the lab itself, but still
		essential.
	All kinds of scientific meters - Photometers, pH meters, voltmeters,
		Gas Crhomatograph, Speedometer, Odometer, etc.
	Ether Telescope and Microscope - to see things too small or distant
		for Ether goggles to pick up.
	Rubber gloves - for messy work.
	Sledgehammer, pipe wrench, pliers - for REALLY messy work, for self
		defense too.
	Oil can - to get moving parts going right.
	Espesso machine - for those long nights.
	Lab Mice - even mages need cute pets, never hurt them, only a cruel
		technocracy mage would do that.
	A Freezer - for cold storage of things.  
	Beakers and glassware and Bunsen Burners (ohmy)
	Acid of some type - to warn people away from.
	Many brightly colored chemical solutions
	Some Flourescent Fluid
	Silly Putty - for calibrating instuments, defying analysis, and
		use on the funny papers.
	A really big Fish Tank - for immersing things in moxes of stuff
	An inflatable Godzilla Decoy - to fool rampaging monsters, best if 
		enhances witha CO2 cartride for a quick inflation.
        Band Aids - For minor lab accidents and study.


	Naturally some SotEs use equipment few others do.  Potatoes come to
mind...

Mike Moolick

From: datawolf <datawolf@rust.net>
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller
Subject: Re: Son of the Ether Gizmos
Date: 24 Sep 1995 13:27:29 GMT
Organization: Project Somnium
NNTP-Posting-Host: liv-12.rust.net
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Mailer: Mozilla 1.1PE (Windows; I; 16bit)

Pardon the last three messages, Netscape had a beta-version-fit.  To continue:

datawolf <datawolf@rust.net> wrote:
>moolick@shrsys.hslc.org wrote:
>>
>>	I'm wonder what people consider standard equipment in a Son of the 
>>Ether Lab.
>
>Most of the SoE characters I've had have been a little unconventional.  
>Here's some of the stuff they used to keep in their labs:
>
>For a SoE Botanist:
>     Several dozen spray bottles containing a variety of plant nutrients
>     A large hydroponics tank with gro-lighting adjustable to an extensive
           variety of colors
      Flowers which would change color whenever nobody was looking at them.
      A Familiar which appeared as a cross between Junior from Little Shop
           and Cleopatra from Addams Family.
      Hundreds of soil samples, including some taken from Umbral Realms.
      A seed collection containing varieties which were either extinct or 
           which nobody had ever heard of, as well as mundane ones.
      An attached greenhouse which was conspicuously designed more to keep
           things IN than OUT.
      A cage and tank containing common feeder animals (goldfish and mice)
           though there APPEARED to be nothing to feed them to.
      Several cages (again, no lab ANIMALS to put them in.)
      A flame thrower (?!)
      A moderate chemistry lab, mostly mundane.
      The occasional small plant which would uproot and run away if anyone
           attempted to touch it.
      A plot of carrots which appeared to be growing upside down (with the
           leaves in the soil and the root protruding.)
      A couple cabbages which could occasionally he heard to hum tunelessly.
      A hand-pump chemical sprayer labeled EMERGENCY in ominous lettering.
      A notable lack of insects.
                                             mailto:datawolf@rust.net  
      
From: datawolf <datawolf@rust.net>
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller
Subject: Re: Son of the Ether Gizmos
Date: 25 Sep 1995 03:44:40 GMT
Organization: Project Somnium
NNTP-Posting-Host: dtw-20.rust.net
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Mailer: Mozilla 1.1PE (Windows; I; 16bit)

Within the lab of our one (and only) Child Mage Son of Ether:
(His dad was also a Son of Ether.. we used to call him Son of Son
of Ether.)

One low quality microscope (which got rather better magnification
     than it should have.)
One store bought chemistry set.
Old pickle and mayo jars containing bugs.
A butterfly collection containing rather.. uh.. unusual specimins.
An old abacus with bottle caps replacing some lost beads.
Many batteries of different sizes.
Lots (and lots and lots) of Legos. (Very useful!)
A deluxe Erector Set (the one with the really cool motors,)
A pair of X-Ray glasses with Ether enhancement (gift from dad.)
A Gieger counter built from plans found in a Boy Scout Geology
     Merit Badge book.
Some really old copies of Paradigma hidden under the matress.
An early model 2XL which asked rather advanced questions without
     any need for an 8-track tape.
Some coloring books containing strange diagrams rather than filled
     in pictures.
An (autographed) picture of Albert Einstien.
College level textbooks with margin notes made in Crayola.
A telescope with a few enhancements.
A rock collection which very conspicuously registered on the Gieger
     counter.
A notable lack of most other things kids have in their rooms.
(His dad was under the impression that Tommy wasn't ready for big
person scientific equipment yet.)
                                          mailto:datawolf@rust.net



