From nv91-asa@somme.nada.kth.se Tue Nov  8 14:03:50 1994
Received: from comp.uark.edu by mail.nada.kth.se (5.61-bind 1.4+ida/nada-mx-1.0)
	id AA29244; Mon, 7 Nov 94 17:42:16 +0100
Received: (from sbabb@localhost) by comp.uark.edu (8.6.9/8.6.9) id KAA00549; Mon, 7 Nov 1994 10:41:48 -0600
Date: Mon, 7 Nov 1994 10:41:46 -0600 (CST)
From: Shelby Babb <sbabb@comp.uark.edu>
Subject: The Goblin Kingdom 
To: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
Message-Id: <Pine.3.89.9411071021.A29050-0100000@comp>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII


	(finally decided to give it a shot?)

	Admittedly based on a wierd hybrid of the movie Labyrinth, and 
the videos of Tool shown on MTV.  I was going to wait to post this until after 
I had finished the campaign I use it in (which started about a year ago), but 
it will never end.  It won't let me kill it!!  Oh well,
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE KINGDOM OF THE GOBLINS
--------------------------

	Aleric strode amongst the masses of his goblins and knights, 
smiling at the harvest they had reaped.  Thirty children had been 
captured this month, thirty more soldiers to fill Aleric's ranks.  Thirty 
children who would be destroyed.  Aleric smiled approvingly at his 
followers and the treasures they had brought to be changed, while his 
heart held back a tear.
	He had to do this; the kingdom could not be allowed to fall!

History: The Goblin Kingdom dates at least to before the Renaissance, when a 
marauder, named Aleric Giovinci, took the mantle of Goblin King after defeating 
its previous ruler.
	Aleric had been a promising disciple among the Order of Hermes, 
studying under Franchesca De'Medici before her fateful accident.  After 
the two attempted a particularly massive ritual to travel to the Umbra 
which failed, Franchesca and Aleric found themselves caught in a paradox 
backlash which threw them into the Umbra (as they wanted) by turning them into 
"pseudo-spirits" and scattering them across the Umbra.
	Over the next few days, Aleric found that he need not eat or drink, 
sustaining himself on the omnipresent vim (i.e. quintessence) within the 
Umbra.  Aleric also soon discovered that he could return to Gaia, but due to 
his dependence on the Umbra for sustenance, he would "suffocate" within an 
hour.  Hoping that his mentor could be of some help, Aleric began seeking for 
Franchesca.
	Aleric searched for her, and stumbled into a realm hidden within 
the Umbra.  The realm was designed like a palace, filled with corridors 
and chambers, and decorated with tapestries and articles that Aleric 
(correctly) guessed to have been created in the early Dark Ages.  Soon 
after Aleric began exploring this strange place, he encountered a group 
of short, repulsive humanoids of all descriptions being led by a pair of 
armored soldiers.  When the soldiers removed their helmets, Aleric saw 
two of the most attractive beings he had ever encountered.
	The two addressed themselves, in perfect Italian, as being 
Knights of the Goblin Kingdom, and that Aleric was a prisoner of Jogat, 
King of the Goblin Realm.  Aleric, trying to approach the situation in a 
diplomatic way, allowed himself to be taken prisoner and brought before 
the king.  Aleric recognized the little creatures as Goblins, but based 
upon common folklore as opposed to those found in Arcadia.
	When Aleric was brought to the throne room he nearly burst into 
laughter.  Sitting on the throne was a old, fat, unkempt man with a beer 
belly ravishing a turkey drumstick.  Aleric controlled himself, not 
knowing what powers this king possessed.  
	"What's with the visitor, Altai," the king asked one of the two 
knights that had escorted Aleric in between slurpings of mead.
	"We found him exploring the southern chambers.  He wasn't 
stealing anything, and he did not resist arrest us when we took him 
prisoner,"  the Goblin Knight replied.
	The king, ignoring Altai's comments altogether, stated "very 
good.  Kill him Altai."
	Aleric, refusing to let someone so fat and pompous as this 
supposed king arbitrarily dictate his death, knocked Altai to the 
ground and shouted "you'll have to do that yourself, you bloated hog!"
	Immediately the throne room became silent, and Aleric feared he 
had sealed his doom.  All of the goblins and knights backed away from 
the mage, all of them chanting "the king has been challenged" over and 
over.  Aleric began to panic, until he looked at the face of the king 
and saw the king's fear as well.  Aleric then understood.
	The ruler of this realm was determined in trial by combat, a 
combat the fat man had won long ago.  The goblins (both plain and 
"knighted") either could not, or would not, challenge their king.  Knowing 
this the old king had allowed himself to grow lazy, and unfit.  Aleric 
vowed to win, and use this realm to return him to Gaia.      
	The old king didn't stand a chance, as Aleric threw a Ball of 
Abysmal Flame at the worthless drunkard.  As the king's corpse began to 
burn to dust, the assembled goblins all hailed Aleric as their king.  And then 
Aleric heard the beating calling to him.  A pair of knights gently took Aleric,
who was in a hypnotic stupor, out of the throne room and into a huge chamber.  
Resting on a giant circular altar was an enormous white crystal, pulsating with 
a red light inside of it.
	"This is the Goblin Heart, the heart of the realm.  As king..." Altai 
began to say.
	"... it is my duty to protect from the legions of darkness," Aleric 
interrupted as he gazed at the stone in awe.  The Heart flooded his mind with 
knowledge of the realm, the goblins, the knights, and the Heart itself.  Aleric 
saw the Heart's creation, and in that moment his soul merged with the Heart.  
He was the Goblin King!
	He knew of realms and how they were powered from the teachings of 
Franchesca, and he knew that there were bound to be Node sites somewhere that 
powered this realm.  He found ley lines at hidden faerie rings, and deep 
within the ground.  These nodes were protected from attack by groups of goblins 
and knights, which Aleric knew were formed the souls of babies.  While the 
faerie trods had been abandoned by their past owners, the nodes hidden 
underground were constantly under attack from evil Garou who called themselves 
Black Spiral Dancers.  
	The Spirals ruthlessly tried to take the areas and turn them into 
Caerns for their own use.  The battle had been going on for over a century, 
and the Spirals grew in strength with every passing decade before Aleric took 
the throne.  The knights and goblins always managed to keep the Wyrm creatures 
at bay, but eventually a large pack of the dark Garou managed to not only 
take one of the underground Nodes, but used the Node to invade the Goblin 
Realm.  
	It wasn't until the middle of the 1800's that Aleric managed to defeat 
most of the pack and reclaim the Node.  Aleric then used strong magicks and 
wards to prevent such a recapture from repeating itself.  But there was one 
survivor among the Spirals, a young Theurge who vowed to rule this realm and 
keep Aleric's head as a trophy.
	The Spiral, known as Kreet, summoned dark Banes from the homes of 
abusive families.  She summoned the Braltharka, abusers of the innocent, and 
Children of the Effigy, the lowly ones, from the cities where boys and girls 
worked in factories and were abused by their parents.  The dark spirits struck 
against Aleric, taking vast portions of the realm.  Aleric struck back, by 
sending  "hunting parties" to gather children to be turned into goblins by the 
power of the Heart.
	The battle has been swaying back and forth since then, with each side 
trying to amass more forces than the other for a crushing victory.  Aleric 
knows that he can not give up, for if he fails the realm, its goblins, and the 
Heart will all fall to the Wyrm.  And so, the harvesting of the innocents 
continue.

Cabals: There are no cabals in the Goblin Realm.  Aleric is the only resident 
mage here, but occasionally he takes on other magi as students, at the price of 
total obedience.

Basic Concept: The realm is entirely indoors, with no windows, and no doors 
leading "outside."  It resembles a hybrid of various interior designs from 
between the dark ages to the modern era.  A cubist painting may hang next to a 
chandelier from the sixteenth century.  But despite all the contrasting images, 
the Heart manages to shape the realm to look excellent.  Goblins occasionally 
roam down the halls, messing and breaking things, and the realm simply "cleans" 
itself after they have passed.
	However, as one goes closer to the areas ruled by Kreet, the realm 
begins to show signs of decay and chaos.  Furniture is broken, paint peels 
from the walls, and the realm is powerless to fix this "disease" of Wyrm 
infection.

Environment: This realm is larger than many small towns, and entirely 
self-contained.  All light, water, food, and air are supplied by the Heart 
through quintessence from the Nodes.  As one approaches the Wyrm Halls (as 
Aleric calls them), the lights become muted, food and water are spoiled, and 
the air is full of choking amounts of dust.

Denizens: Aleric commands the lesser Goblins and their Goblin Knight siblings, 
while Kreet leads her Braltharka and Effigies (see below for stats).  
Occasionally a rat or other small animal will wander into the realm by 
entering one of the Node areas, but due to the remote location and improved 
security, this is rare.

Nodes: The Ring of Lyon- a faerie trod hidden outside of Lyon, France, the Ring 
was once used as a gateway between Gaia and the Goblin Realm.  However, since 
Aleric began his battle against the Spirals so long ago, he has sealed off all 
Node access to the realm so that only strong magicks or rituals can break 
his locks.

The Cave of Light- this cave is hidden in the mountains outside of Denver 
Colorado.  During the 1800's, the Spirals, in a last ditch attempt, had a 
series of "mines" dug to get to the cave hidden deep in the mountain.  Aleric, 
sensing the attack, summoned a powerful water elemental to drown the 
Spirals and their fomori miners.  The lower parts of the mines are still 
flooded to this day.
	Aleric finds it interesting that this is the only Node of the Realm 
that doesn't exist within England.  He assumes that this is due to the fact 
that the Node is EXTREMELY powerful, and very well hidden.

Magickal Ratings:
Correspondence: -3  (Only in use.  Some areas of the Realm were
  created using Level 4 and 5 Correspondence effects, but the lower
  levels will not function except as vulgar effects.) 
Entropy: +1 (Since the arrival of Kreet's forces, the Entropy of the Realm
  has risen to reflect the decay and destruction she brings.)
Forces: 0 (Some areas under high Correspondence effects have bizarre
  gravity, but neither aid nor penalize such magicks.)
Life: 0 
Matter: 0
Mind: 0
Prime: -1 (Subtract one die from ALL magicks involving Prime in ANY
  form due to the rising Entropy forces and the quintessence harvesting of
  the Goblin Heart.)
Spirit: -3 (Only in use.  Levels one through three require vulgar magick to
  be worked.)
Time: 0 (While Time progresses identically to Earth aging does not occur,
  but as Entropy grows, this may change.)
    
Note: the Goblin King, Knights, and Lesser Goblins can not acquire
  Paradox in their realm, and can ignore all sphere level restrictions.

Chantry Description:
The Goblin Realm is a huge, sprawling collection of rooms, corridors, and 
secret passages easily as big as a small town.  There are ten "floors," each 
with interconnections to other floors.  Due to strange warpings of space (also 
known as teseracts), the are stairways one the bottom floor leading to the top, 
doors that open up to vastly removed areas, and even more impossible structures.
	The Goblin Heart resides in the very center of the realm, surrounding 
by "pure area", areas that the Aleric controls.  On the top floor, and 
surrounding the pure areas are the Wyrm Halls, where Kreet's forces have been 
able to damage the structure of the realm and claim it as their own.  
Currently, the Wyrm Halls are immune to all attempts at Correspondence use by 
even the Goblins and Aleric, preventing quick raids into the Halls.  This 
results in guerrilla warfare tactics combined with a strange form of "trench" 
warfare, where Goblins and Banes make combat raids into their enemies holdings.
	Also scattered through the realm are randomly changing areas leading to 
the Node sites on Gaia, with shallowing allowing creatures to enter and leave.  
Aleric believes that Kreet has managed to "bind" one or more of these moving 
areas into her control, and that she uses them to summon Banes through to the 
Realm.

Purpose:
Aleric claimed this realm from Jotan, the previous Goblin King, and in so 
doing, learned of the Goblin Heart and the Realm.  Aleric doesn't completely 
understand the reason for the Realm's creation, but knows that it is meant as 
a housing for the Heart, which in turn is some sort of an experiment by an 
Oracle or Umbrood Lord (Aleric isn't sure which) who held very strong 
connections with Europe.
	Aleric has no idea why the Heart was designed to create Goblins from 
the souls of mortal children, or why the realm changes its decor in reflection 
of changes made in Europe.  
	Currently, Aleric has decided that all of the Realm's energies must be 
dedicated to defending the Heart from the ever-advancing hordes of the Wyrm.

Chantry Inhabitants:
The Realm is fairly well isolated thanks to its low Spirit and Correspondence 
ratings (an attempt by the Heart's creator to deter the "unworthy" from gainin 
the Heart and the Realm), there are quiet a few visitors and residents besides 
the Goblins and Wyrm spirits. 
	Aleric, always looking for assistance in his long war, has been known 
to take on other mages as pupils.  Currently he is instructing a young Verbena, 
by the name of Abigail, in the arts of magick as she assists him in finding 
children and fighting the Banes.  Also present are members of a strange race of 
Umbrood known as Intruders, who claim to be allied to the Marauders.
	Unknown to both Kreet and Aleric, a trio of combat cyborgs from 
Iteration X have managed to sneak into the realm.  Armed with  experimental 
"paradox-transmitters", the cyborgs seek to decimate members from both sides, 
while accumulating data on the various manifestations of Paradox.

Internal Structure and Relations:
With the exceptions of the Intruders, Abigail, and the cyborgs, all members are 
COMPLETELY loyal to the leaders of their respective camps, to the point of 
self-destruction (even the Lesser Goblins would sacrifice themselves for the 
sake of their King and home, albeit with a LOT of bitching.  But Goblins bitch 
about everything anyway.)

External Relations:
Due to his war, Aleric is always open to new mages.  However, until he knows 
their true motives, he treats them as enemies, under careful guard.  If he 
finds them of use in his conflicts.
	The only relations Aleric has with the mundane world is when he sends 
his goblins to acquire new children.  Aleric often tries to "rescue" children 
from abusive homes, as he finds them better off in his world as goblins, than 
in the "loving care" of their parents.  However, as the war grows more costly, 
Aleric takes more and more children wherever he can find them.

Status and Reputation:
Since the Realm isn't very well known, it is low on status, but those who do 
know of it think highly of it.
Status: 2	Reputation: 2

Allies and Enemies:
Besides the problems that Kreet brings, Aleric is (unknowingly) being hunted by 
an amalgam of Iteration X, who sees him as being a highly dangerous Marauder.  
He has also earned the wrath of the Black Spirals, and an Umbrood servant of 
the Wyrm.
	However, Aleric is well known to several mages among the Verbena, and 
is also well liked by members of both the Seelie and Unseelie courts of the fey 
for reasons that remain unclear.

Research Capabilities:
Excellent in magickal matters, but three to five hundred years out of date in 
almost every mundane way.  Aleric allows free access to his vast laboratories 
and libraries to his students, and will offer more restricted access to other 
mages in return for favors. 
	All library resources are kept as books, scrolls, and other hard, paper 
forms.  His laboratories have stockpiles of numerous rare chemicals found on 
Gaia and throughout the Umbrae, and contain some reserve quintessence for study.

Theme and Mood:
The theme of stories involving the Goblin Realm should deal with hard choices.  
Do the characters allow Aleric to continue kidnapping children to permanently 
turn into goblins, or do they try to prevent the kidnappings (assuring Kreet of 
a victory due to the dwindling number of troops Aleric has).  And if the 
players wish to become students of Aleric, they must be willing to do ANYTHING 
he asks in return.
	The mood is one of hardened determination.  The trenches are done and 
the war won't end until either Aleric or Kreet is no more.  Players who enter 
the Realm should think of cities under siege, with rapid movements of soldiers 
from one area to another, constant battle, and bewildering amounts of chaos as 
one goes closer to the Wyrm Halls.  However, many areas (even in the Wyrm 
Halls) seem calm and subdued, only adding to the confusion of the inevitable 
conflict.

Stories:
There are many ways to get PCs to the Goblin Kingdom.  Perhaps they manage to 
stumble across one of the hidden nodes, or the child of a friend is kidnapped 
and they investigate only to find a string of thefts which lead to capture by 
a group of goblins and knights, maybe Aleric sends a few knights to try to 
recruit the mages.
	Also, since there is no natural or magickal sunlight in the realm (just 
"regular" magickally created lights), Kindred could easily take part in the 
events within the realm (imagine what would happen if a pack of Sabbat decided 
to set up home).  And due to the odd coincidence of portals randomly appearing 
on Gaia, any sort of creature may stumble into the realm.
________________________________________________________________________________
NPCS
-------

THE FORCES OF ALERIC
-------------------------------

Goblins
---------
Nature: Varies, usually Sycophant
Demeanor: Varies, usually Bravo

STR 2	CHA 1	PER 2	
DEX 2	MAN 2	INT   1
STA 2	APP 1	WIT  2

Talents, Etc.- Alertness 3, Awareness 3, Brawl 2, Dodge 3, Melee 2,
  Stealth 3

Willpower 3	Arcane 1	Sword (Dif-6, Dam-4)

Health Levels- same as human

Flaws: Cowardly (slight), Loyal to the Goblin King (Total), Short

Goblin "Gifts" (roll die twice)
1) Claws (+1 STR dam, aggravated, dif-6)
2) Armor (+1 soak dice)
3) Wings (flight speed equal to 10 yds/turn; can't hover)
4) +3 DEX
5) Heightened Senses (+2 PER)
6) Can make 2 actions per turn without splitting dice pool
7) Fireballs (dam 1/success on willpower roll (dif-6))
8) Enter Leave Umbra (willpower roll (dif-6))
9) +2 Arcane
10) Bow (20 arrows, dif-8, dam-3, Archery 2)

Lesser Goblins are rude, smelly, obnoxious, loud, cowardly, bitchy, little 
creatures.  If it wasn't for the fact that they are fanatically loyal to their 
king, they would have pulled out of the war as soon as it had started.
	Lesser Goblins are formed at the end of a complex ritual where the 
Goblin Heart takes the pattern of a child, alters it and splits it into ten 
separate life forms (a feat even Aleric doesn't understand).  The goblins are 
completely unique, with the intellectual development of a ten year, and the 
behavior to match.  However, lesser goblins are also "born" with combat 
training, and various "gifts," given by the Heart.

Goblin Knights (a.k.a. Knights)
-----------------
Nature: Almost always Fanatic devotion to Goblin King
Demeanor: Bravo

STR 4	CHA 4	PER 4
DEX 4	MAN 5	INT 3
STA 3	APP 4	WIT 3

Talents, Etc.- Alertness 4, Awareness 4, Brawl 3, Dodge 3, Melee 5,
  Stealth 2

Willpower 5	Arcane 2	Sword (Dif-7, Dam-6 (Aggravated))

Health Levels- same as human

Flaws: Loyal to the Goblin King (Total)

Goblin Knight Abilities (roll die three times)
1) Goblin Fire (dam 2 (aggravated)/success on willpower roll (Dif-6))
2) +3 Arcane
3) Can take three actions per turn without splitting dice pool
4) Armor (+3 soak dice, -1 to DEX)
5) Enter/Leave Umbra at will (no roll needed)
6) Able to Teleport self (as Cor. 3 effect, on a willpower roll (dif-6))
7) Summon Goblins (1 per temporary willpower spent (5 max))
8) Regeneration (not from aggravated wounds or iron)
9) Countermagic (2 dice)
10) Move up to 200 lbs telekinetically (on a willpower roll, dif-7)

Goblin Knights are formed in the same manner as Lesser Goblins, with one major 
difference.  For every child used, only one knight can be formed.  Whereas the 
(lesser) goblins are wretched little creature, the knights are tall, beautiful, 
noble beings.  Goblin Knights are also "born" with more powerful gifts, and a 
more finely tuned military mindset.  But despite their differences, lesser 
goblins and the goblin knight share no feelings of animosity towards each 
other. 

Aleric, The Goblin King, and Defender of the Goblin Heart
(Order of Hermes/Marauder)
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Essence: Dynamic
Nature: Autist
Demeanor: Manipulator

STR 2	CHA 3	PER 4
DEX 4	MAN 4 	INT  4	
STA 2	APP 3	WIT 4

Talents, Etc: Alertness 3, Athletics 2, Awareness 3, Brawl 2, 
  Cosmology 3, Dodge 3, Enigmas 1, Etiquette 3, Expression 3, Faerie
  Lore 3, Intuition 3, Intimidation 3, Meditation 2, Melee 4, Occult 5,
  Stealth 3, Throwing 2, Wyrm Lore 3  

Willpower 9	Arete 8

Backgrounds: Arcane 3, Avatar 5, Dream 3

Spheres: Correspondence 4 (Goblin Heart), Entropy 5, Forces 4, Life 5,
  Mind 5, Matter 1, Prime 3, Spirit 3, Time 1 

Quintessence (usually 5)		Paradox 0 (due to Goblin Heart)

Background:  Aleric Giovinci was the son of a poor shopkeeper in the city of 
Milan.  Always known as an extremely lucky boy, Aleric was also seen as being 
very odd and unpredictable.  He gambled with rich merchants and began to make 
a very large amount of money before they decided to use him as an example to 
those who cheated at their games; the merchants assumed that Aleric had to be 
cheating to win as much as he did.
	Aleric was soon at the mercy of a trio of thugs, hired to beat him to 
near death, in a hidden alley.  As the thugs got excited in their work, they 
didn't notice the woman who walked into the alley behind them.  She said 
nothing, just pointed an amulet at the men and stood back as a bolt of lightning
shoot out of the necklace and incinerated one of the thugs.  The other two ran 
fleeing past the woman, as she went over to the badly hurt young boy.  As 
Aleric looked up at her face, he saw she had lightning storms for eyes, and 
then he fell into unconsciousness.  Franchesca De'Medici had found her new 
pupil.  
	Aleric was a student of Franchesca De'Medici during the 15th century.  
It was during an experiment to create a portal to an area in the Deep Umbra 
that Paradox thrust Aleric and his mentor into the High Umbra, and prohibited 
him from returning to Gaia.  Since he has become Goblin King, his soul and 
Avatar have become linked to the mysterious Artefact, a fact which keeps him 
strongly bound to his kingdom. 
	The rest is history.

Image: Standing about six foot, four inches, Aleric is tall, and very 
attractive.  He keeps a mane of hair that gradually changes from red to 
blonde to white and then reverses the cycle (a permanent Paradox flaw). 
Aleric always dresses in rich, ornate robes and clothing dating from the 
Renaissance to the Dark Ages, and he always seems to have a very serious, some 
would say melancholic, look to his face.

Role-playing Tips: The Goblin Heart, the Realm, and its goblins are all 
counting on you.  If you fail, not only will you be no more, but they will all 
be forced to serve the Wyrm.  And since you are linked to the Heart, you can't 
even leave the Realm once the battle ends.  Of course, you wouldn't ever want 
to leave anyway, this is your place.
	This war has forced you to steal children from their families.  You 
tried to only take those who were better off with you (the ill, the abused, 
etc.), but you need more forces and that option is now lost to you.  Should you 
win this war, you intend to learn everything you can about the Heart, the 
Realm, and the strange connection they have with the fey.	

THE FORCES OF KREET
--------------------------------------
Braltharka
---------------

STR 7	CHA 0	PER 2
DEX 3	MAN 0	INT   1
STA 5	APP 0	WIT  1

Talents, Etc.- Alertness 3, Athletics 2, Awareness 5,  Brawl 4, Dodge 1,
  Intimidation 9, Stealth 1

Willpower 9	Arete 4

Sphere Effects: Sense Weakness (Entropy 1), Never Hit (Entropy 2), Heal 
  Self (Life 3), Destroy (Entropy 4)

Claws/Fangs (Dif-6, Dam-7, Aggravated); Punch/Kick (Dif-6, Dam-9)

Health Levels: OK (x4), -1 (x4), -2 (x2), Incapacitated, Destroyed

Paradox 2

Merits: Silent, Daredevil	   	Flaws: Mute, Monstrous

Giant, mute demons, Braltharka are vile creatures created from child abusers, 
exploiters and molesters; the Braltharka is the physical embodiment of the 
emotions involved in these acts of sadism and cruelty.  Braltharka appear 
as nine-foot tall hybrids between ants and bears, dressed in business suits of 
various designs.  While considered mute, the Braltharka can make noises; they 
can create a variety of hate -filled screams that many a child has heard. 
	The Braltharka are capable of sensing the weaknesses within their foes, 
are able to reduce Entropy so as to be harder to hit, heal themselves, and 
create blasts of pure Entropic energy.

Children of the Effigy
------------------------

STR 4	CHA 0	PER 4
DEX 3	MAN 1	INT   2
STA 3	APP 0	WIT  4

Talents, Etc.- Alertness 3, Awareness 3, Brawl 3, Dodge 2, Intimidation 6, 
  Melee 3

Willpower 5	Arete 2

Sphere Effects: Sense Weakness (Entropy 1), Create Blade (Matter 2,
  Prime 1)

"Claws" (Dif-6, Dam-5, Aggravated); "Blades" (Dif- 7, Dam-7)

Health Levels: OK (x3), -2 (x2), Destroyed

Paradox 3

Merits: None			Flaws: Monstrous, Mute

The Children of the Effigy (also called Effigies), are Wyrm spirits created 
from the feelings of self-disgust and pain from abused children.  Strangely, 
the Effigies carry these feelings of pain and self-hatred, and use the 
feelings to lash out against their enemies.  The Children of the Effigy look 
like wooden marionettes of a bizarre nature; their bodies are mutilated and 
covered with razors, nails, and other such weapons, all of which are tainted 
with poisons of the Wyrm (these weapons are collectively referred to as 
"claws").  
	The Effigies have the abilities to sense weakness in their opponents, 
and create any sort of bladed, melee weapon they can imagine.

Kreet, Theurge of the Black Spiral Dancers
-----------------------------------------------------
Nature: Bravo
Demeanor: Fanatic

Breed: Homid	Auspice: Theurge   Tribe: Black Spiral Dancer

STA 3	CHA 2	PER 3
DEX 4	APP 4	INT   3
STA 3	MAN 4	WIT  5
(note: all attributes are for Homid form)

Talents, Etc.: Alertness 4, Athletic 4, Brawl 5, Dodge 5, Enigmas 3, 
Intimidation 4, Leadership 4, Melee 5, Occult 5, Primal-Urge 4, Rituals 5, 
Stealth 4, Subterfuge 3, 

Willpower: 9	Rage: 8	      Gnosis: 9

Backgrounds: Fetishes 5 (Wyrm Fang Dagger, Bane Lantern), Past Life 5

Rank: 5     Gifts: Persuassion, Staredown, Disquiet, Reshape Object, Spirit 
Ward, Sense Wyrm, Spirit Speech, Blood Omen, Command Spirit, Name the Spirit, 
Sight From Beyond, Exorcism, Pulse of the Invisible, Grasp the Beyond, Spirit 
Drain, The Malleable Spirit, Bane Protector, Shroud, Howl of the Banshee, Ears 
of the Bat, Wyrm Hide, Patagia, Foaming Fury, Crawling Poison, Doppleganger, 
Balefire 

Background: Kreet was conceived from the raping of a man by a female Black 
Spiral Dancer named B'trk'a, and was born in the Goblin Kingdom when the large 
pack B'trk'a was in entered the realm.  Kreet grew up with the pack, learning 
from her pack members numerous rites and gifts.  
	She fought against the hordes of goblins to claim the realm for her 
pack and for the pack's totem, the Green Dragon.  But in the end, all of her 
pack brothers and sisters (and even her own Metis children) fell before the 
onslaught of Aleric's forces.  In despair, Kreet retreated into the farthest 
reaches of the realm, vowing to find a way to claim revenge.
	It was there that she found a portal linked to a Black Spiral Hive on 
Gaia.  She traveled to Hive, and (raining of a large portion of its energy) 
used it to make the portal a permanent fixed pathway.  From here she summons 
the Braltharka and Effigies to Gaia, and from there leads them into the Goblin 
Kingdom.

Image: A beautiful woman, Kreet stands just at six feet tall.  Her athletic 
body is covered in an array of scars that add rather than detract from her 
beauty, and her head is crowned by a fiery red mass of hair.  Kreet doesn't 
believe in wearing clothes, and ravishes in her beauty.
	In Crinos form Kreet is a hideous monster, with leathery bat wings, 
pointed ears, blackish-red fur, and stands slightly over nine-feet in height.  
Of course, Kreet finds herself even more beautiful in this form.

Role-playing Notes: You know that Aleric is a fool, and a coward.  You will 
take his head, and then with the realm in your command, you will take Gaia.  
With your beauty and warrior skill, you will prove yourself worthy to be 
concubine to none other than the Wyrm itself.  No other is as worthy as you.

OTHERS
-----------
Intruders
-----------

STR 3	CHA 2	PER 3
DEX 4	MAN 2	INT  2	
STA 3	APP 2	WIT 3

Talents, Etc: Alertness 2, Athletics 2, Awareness 3, Brawl 3, Cosmology
  5, Dodge 3, Meditation 3, Melee 3, Occult 5 

Willpower 7	Arete 4

Spheres: Correspondence 3, Life 3, Spirit 3, Time 3

Arcane 	3	Dream 3

Health Levels: same as human

Background: The Intruders are a very rare group of creatures from the Deep 
Umbra.  They posses the gift of true magick, but in a unique form.  Intruders 
use spheres, but make all magick (coincidental and vulgar) rolls using Arete, 
and while they can not use quintessence to power to aid their magick, they 
do not accumulate paradox or attract Paradox spirits.
	Currently, seven Intruders (also known as Nomads) have joined forces 
with Aleric to help him protect the Goblin Heart from falling into the hands 
of the Wyrm.  Aleric has seldom spoken with them, as they prefer to hide from 
both camps, but he has determined that they are allied somewhat closely with 
the Marauders. 

"Infectors"
---------------

STR 5	CHA 0	PER 5
DEX 7	MAN 1	INT   2
STA 5	APP  0	WIT  3

Talents, Etc: Alertness 5, Athletics 5, Brawl 3, Dodge 3, Firearms 3,
  Stealth 2, Throwing 2

Willpower: 5	Paradox: 4

Armor: 3 	Counter-Magick: 2 dice

Claws (Dif-6, Dam 7)

Paradox Transmitters (Dif-8, Dam-<special>, ammo-10, Range -130
  yards,  Rate of Fire-triple/single)

Health Levels: OK (x5); -1 (x3); -5; Destroyed

Background: Infectors are the latest experiment of Iteration X (with the aid 
of a now-deceased Son of Ether).  While more machine than human, the Infectors 
are encased in human looking bodies with highly enhanced reflexes and speed, 
and boosted strength and endurance.  But the truly remarkable feature of the 
Infectors is their paradox transmission beam systems (for every two successes 
the cyborg scores on a Dexterity+Firearms roll, the target takes a point 
of paradox).  The beam systems are linked to the cyborg's power plants, and 
are useless once removed.  
	Iteration X would love to be able to duplicate the transmitters, but 
can not.  The original designs were created by a renegade Son of Ether, who 
also destroyed them once he realized that Iteration X was going to terminate 
him.  All attempts to recreate the designs have failed.  Iteration X must be 
satisfied with the three it has sent to the Goblin Kingdom, on their data 
collecting mission.  However, Iteration X has kept two Infectors on Gaia, one 
for research, and another for use in the progrom.










