From nv91-asa@lurkers.nada.kth.se Thu Jun 30 15:13:51 1994
Date: Thu, 9 Jun 1994 13:09:13 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nilen.nada.kth.se>
Sender: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nilen.nada.kth.se>
Reply-To: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nilen.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Re: Goetic Magi
To: mage-lizards.com@nilen.nada.kth.se
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9406091328.A23786-0100000@nilen.nada.kth.se>

>1)Could you give some examples on how a Goetic would handle various situations?
>For instance, being attacked by the Technocracy, encountering a Vampire or 
>Garou, 
>trying to investigate a company, trying to enter a high security building, 
>trying to t
>track down a friend or enemy, being mugged by common thugs...just a few 
>scenarios.

This is going to be a bit theoretical, since so far I have not had the 
chance of seeing a Goetic mage in action. One of my players have created 
one (actually the inspiration for the sub-tradition), and I will shortly 
learn how he would handle these situations. However, remember that Goetic 
Magi are individualists, so each will probably find different solutions.

What would a Goetic Mage do if the technocracy attacks him? That depends a
bit on the type of attack. Subtle attacks, like erasing his accounts,
tracing him and bugging his apartment are hard to defend against. The best
solution is probably to try to escape and get a new identity, since Goetic
mages are not very good at handling modern magick. However, an physical
assault of MIBs, HIT Marks and similar agents is easier to defend 
against, especially if the mage doesn't mind a lot of paradox. Some 
simple suggestions would be escape using some spirit of transportation, 
calling up some nasty allies to help him, summoning the Subterraneous Light 
Demons from the West (from Liber Honorius) and let them call up a zombie 
army, etc... However, the Technocracy is hard to defend against, as all 
mages know.

Vampires are much better. Many Goetic mages are so fixed on the past that 
they would feel a bit of kinship with elders. In fact, I wouldn't be 
surprised if Tremeres and Goetic mages respect each other. Another thing 
to remember is that many Goetic mages are used to command supernatural 
beings, and have a great feel for the master-subservient mentality of 
many kindred. In fact, many Goetic mages would probably be rather at home 
with vampiric society with its chains of boons, feudal titles and blood 
bounds. However, in a crisis an angel would be very efficient against 
vampires...

Garous and Goetic mages don't mix... Most Garou would think the mages are
rather Wyrm-tainted (dealing with demons), and be very rude and violent. 
Goetic mages are very seldom good fighters, and without their circles
quite vulnerable. Their spirit allies might be at a disadvantage
themselves against the garou. A few fire-elementals are very handy, or a
quick escape. 

Investigating a company could be interesting. One solution is to call up 
air-elementals or other spirits and send them spying. And there are 
demons involved in business, so if the mage can provide something in 
return, the beings might give him real insider information (For example, 
Astaroth has dominion over casinos and gambling, especially in America). 

Entering a building would mean confusing or avoiding the security system. 
There are quite a lot of beings who are able to cause invisibility, and 
some demons can help the mage become a better thief. Simple 
transportation using a demon or angel is very simple and practical. 

Tracking down people would either mean the mage sent spirits to seek for 
them, or the mage doing some classical scrying. Remember, crystal balls 
have their uses. 

Being mugged... well this shows the problem of the mages. If a Goetic mage
is prepared, he can do much. But if he is suddenly dragged into an dark
alley and confronted with a gang of robbers, he is at a certain
disadvantage. Sending some elementals at them, possessing them or causing a
pipe to fall in their heads (after silently invoking the spirits of lead)
are the most practical options. However, if the mage had made a deal with 
a demon to protect him, then the muggers would be in trouble. Or if they 
mug him, the mage may return to his temple and summon a demon good at 
retrieving the stolen goods (there are lots of them in the Lesser Key of 
Solomon). The muggers completely coincidentally meets another, very nasty 
mugger who robs *them*, or somebody breaks into their hideout and takes 
the goods.

>2) WHat sort of deals would a Goetic make with the various creatures?

Depends a bit on what he wants. My players character have made deals with 
demons about the different spheres (which explains his foci). For 
example, in exchange for the ability to see any place he mentions in High 
German (Correspondence 2, Focus Language), the mage lights three bonfires 
at Midsummer Night around the city in a triangle, thus giving the spirit 
free reign during the night.

Some typical deals:

Simple rotes or effects like above (being able to see into the Umbra, 
throw electrical sparks) can be supplied by lesser spirits, angels and 
demons for small sacrifices or services. Typical examples are the 
bonfires above, sacrificing a mouse each tuesday or praying for the 
spirit each full moon. The effects are mostly roleplaying (explains foci, 
sphere effects etc), but could be expanded by clever mages and STs.

Another practical type of deal is having a spirit protect you, appear or
have its powers at your command (its the spirit that is doing the work, so
you don't have to have the necessary spheres). For example, the mage might
get an angel to follow him and protect him from harm for a certain time,
in exchange for certain services (like burning frankincense and praying
for an equal time). Elementals can be very useful. 

Even more powerful deals are possible, like having the Lord of Fire give
you the ability to breathe fire in exchange for burning down a house for
each time, but smart mages avoid such deals. If the being the mage makes a
deal with is much more powerful (and the mage obviously can't do the
effects himself) the price goes up, and the mage becomes more dependent. 
Especially demons have a tendency to make the mage completely tied to 
them. 

Another type of good deal is teaching. Many spirits are excellent teachers 
(although their formalism might be a bit odd), and could perhaps be used. 
Angels are probably the best bet here, and some of the more amicable 
demons like Vassago.

Other beings to make deals with are kindred, who can be quite good allies 
(and dangerous allies too, but if you're used to demons...). Goetic mages 
can probably make nice blood-pacts with them, especially the Tremere 
(they lend you De Vermiis Mysteriis in exchange of your help in sending 
demons against the Prince...). 

Elementals are good at physical services, control of the Pattern Spheres 
but bad at more advanced problems. Demons have varied and versatile 
powers, but are slightly unreliable. Angels are more specialized, but 
often demand rather much to help. Ghosts can behave as they like, but are 
excellent sources of information. Faeries are very unpredictable, but if 
you control them, you have great opportunities.

The important thing about deals is that each part have something the other
want (or think they want). Sometimes one side doesn't really want or need
the payment from the other side, but accepts anyway to make sure they stay
on good terms or in contact. And both parts are trying to get off as
cheaply as possible while gaining the most. There is an excellent
description of this in the Vampire Storytellers Guide, in the chapter
about Boons. 

>3) Do Goetics see ALL the Spheres as related to spirits?  If they do, how do 
>they
>deal with the ones besides matter and forces?

Goetics do not treat all spheres as spiritual, since they use a rather 
medieval paradigm. However, all spheres have their spirits. Correspondence 
is about the spirits of distance, perception and travel (Correspondence 
3: summon a spirit which sends you to your destination). Entropy is about 
the little spirits which gnaw on everything, causing decay and 
putrefaction. Life is about the living beings, which are really embodied 
spirits (or composed of "body elementals"). Matter and Forces are filled 
with elementals. Mind is from a Goetic perspective the realm of disembodied
spirits, and how the mage can use them or do what they do (like possess 
people). Prime is about the primal force from God, which is mediated and 
controlled by angels. Using Time consists of summoning spirits with the 
power of showing past and future, or even moving things trough time. All 
in all, all spheres can be viewed as mediated by spirits. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y






