From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Sat May 10 20:28:38 1995
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from mail3.netcom.com (root@mail3.netcom.com [192.100.81.127])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id UAA21266 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Wed, 10 May 1995 20:28:31 +0200
Received: by mail3.netcom.com (8.6.12/Netcom)
	id IAA16330; Wed, 10 May 1995 08:38:18 -0700
Received: from blkbox.com by mail3.netcom.com (8.6.12/Netcom)
	id IAA16244; Wed, 10 May 1995 08:37:51 -0700
Subject: White Wolf Writer's Guidelines (fwd)
To: World of Darkness List <wod-l@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 10 May 1995 10:46:46 -0500 (CDT)
From: Rick Jones <rick@blkbox.COM>
X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.4 PL22]
Content-Type: text
Content-Length: 29444     
Message-ID:  <9505101046.aa05134@blkbox.COM>
Sender: owner-wod-l@netcom.com
Precedence: list
Reply-To: wod-l@netcom.com

Here's what Jen Hartshorn posted to alt.games.whitewolf.....

>From: madweaver@aol.com (MadWeaver)
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: WRITERS GUIDELINES ONLINE! ABOUT TIME,HUH?

Remember that we *can not* accept online submissions; we need a signed
disclosure form snailmailed with your proposal, as electronicly
transmitted signatures are not legal. Please pass this on to anyone
interested and get it out to any WWW pages that want it. I'll have copies
ready to send out via email as well now, so if you know someone who needs
them, tell them to write me at MadWeaver@aol.com. We're also planning on
doing workshops for new writers at DragonCon and GenCon this summer, so if
you're interested and plan to be at those cons, stop by. Good luck!

--Jennifer, WWGS


White Wolf Writers Guidelines

We are continually seeking new ideas and material from writers. If you
would like to submit an idea or project proposal to us, please follow
these guidelines:

Submissions
 All submissions must be accompanied by a signed Disclosure Form. Without
this form, the submission cannot be considered. It will be returned if
return postage has been supplied, but otherwise we must throw it away.
Please, do not spend a long time on a submission and then forget to send a
Disclosure Form with it!
 It is best to send a query before spending time on a lengthy submission.
Some subjects may already be taken or planned for publication. Example:
you come up with a great idea for a Vampire supplement set in Rio and want
to write about it. Unfortunately, we already have someone working on it.
If you are unsure about a subject, send in a query with a S.A.S.E. and
we'll let you know if it's available or not. This is especially necessary
when proposing World of Darkness crossover books.
 When writing proposal submissions, keep them brief. They shouldn't be
more than two to three pages in length. If it is interesting enough, we'll
ask you for more. You can give us the details then. For now, stick with
the juicy plot points. 
 Do not worry about sending writing samples yet. Your proposal itself
should serve as the first example. If it grabs us, we'll ask for more
samples.
 While we consider all proposals, realize that the majority of our
products are created in-house and then sent to a freelancer for writing.
Do not be surprised if we cannot immediately fit your proposal into our
schedule. If you are interested in freelancing on projects, state this in
a letter to us and include a writing sample.

Vampire: The Masquerade
Send submissions care of: Jennifer Hartshorn

What It's About
 Vampire is called "A Storytelling Game of Personal Horror", and I'd like
to see future books return to that theme more. The struggle to retain some
degree of Humanity - or the rejection of Humanity altogether - is central
to the existence of any vampire, and that should be reflected in the
characters you write. The seduction of the so-called "dark side" can be
both beautiful and terrible, and vampires are caught up in that struggle. 
 Let your stories explore the World of Darkness through the eyes of the
Kindred. We've already established the archetypes that have defined
Vampire up until now, so in some ways your job is harder than that of
earlier writers. But they've left you a lot to build on - use it! Would
your city really have a Ventrue prince? Sure that's what people expect,
but if you can surprise them (and me!), so much the better.

Writing for Vampire
 What do I want to see? Show me something different. Historical
sourcebooks. Non-Western city or area sourcebooks. The world doesn't need
another dozen bloodlines - what players and Storytellers do want is
sourcebooks that give them something that gets their creativity going.
What do you think would be an interesting area of Kindred lore to explore?
What is missing? Remember, I'm willing to hear proposals for non-typical
sourcebooks. Don't go solely by what's been done before. If you can hold
my interest, chances are you can do the same with a potential reader.
 What proposals are better left unwritten? I will be choosing Clanbook
writers primarily from people who've written for us before, as they're
some of the most important books we publish. Unless you're truly amazing,
I probably won't take first timers on Clanbooks. I'm pretty much set with
proposals for American cities, though again, if you've got something
really different and cool, I'll take a look at it. I'm not going to do a
book on the Inconnu anytime in the foreseeable future- they're cool
because they're mysterious, so if we write a whole book on them, there
goes the mystery. Don't send me reams of your old D&D or Earthdawn short
stories as "writing samples"- I want to know what your ideas are for
Vampire , not those other games. Your proposal can serve as a writing
sample; if I want more, I'll ask. We're not interested in publishing
"modules" or adventures at this point, either. And please, no more
Highlanders!
 The player characters need to be central to any proposed sourcebook. If
you come up with a great idea for The South Pole by Night, you'd better
have a fantastic explanation of why players would ever end up there. In
other words, make sure any proposal is going to be useful to the wide
range of players and Storytellers who will be buying it.

Werewolf: The Apocalypse
Send submissions care of: Bill Bridges

What It's About
 Werewolf is a game about a dying race spitting in the face of certain
doom. It is about a dying culture, a culture with meaning and a primal
spiritual connection to the universe. It is about the dilemma of modern
existence in an industrial society, the mad urge for material things at
the cost of the spiritual, the destruction and remolding of nature in the
pursuit of a better widget for the thingamajig.
 Werewolf is about the plight of a world choked by reason and industry,
smothering out the ancient, instinctual urges and primordial feelings.
Amid this battle stand the Garou, the werewolves of legend, an ancient
race that has always walked the earth defending it against all enemies.
The Garou are Gaia's warriors against the Wyrm, a mythic beast of
corruption and destruction, the evil shadow of modern existence
personified, given face in the form of toxic waste and pollution. 
 The Garou have a primal connection to what we have lost: the primordial,
eternal recreating youth of the world. They are of the Dawn Times, and
still remember life before "civilisation" and the forgetting that comes
with it.
 Oh, and Werewolf is also about COMBAT! The Garou don't take all this
lying down - they fight like hell against the machine. The Garou do what
so many of us desperately wish we could do - RAGE OUT! In a world clogged
by hopelessly tangled red tape and propriety, the Garou cut through the
crap with force of claw and fang. Unlike mages, they aren't going to
intellectualize and philosophize their way out of this hell - they're
going to tear their way out with every ounce of animal cunning and raw
muscle they've got.
 For the Garou, it's Apocalypse now.

Writing For Werewolf
 Werewolf is more of a traditional roleplaying game than the other
Storyteller games in that its main emphasis is on combat and adventure.
However, it is untraditional in that it examines the cultural aspects
surrounding these activities. While Garou may be outsiders to the world of
humankind, they are more deeply a part of their own society than any human
could ever be in theirs. Garou player characters are all members of a
pack, but this pack is far more than the traditional excuse for a bunch of
players to get together and go bash heads in.
 Instinct backs up a Garou's pack mentality. This is not to say that they
are all cogs in a machine - on the contrary, they are all individuals
working together in an organic way. Remember this when writing for
Werewolf. 
 Combat is not the only situation to drop the players into in a Werewolf
game. There are also tribal moots, magical rituals, adventures of
exploration into the spirit world, etc., etc. Don't downplay the power of
a good rousing battle, though. Garou are rageful creatures and don't have
a lot of patience for their enemies. However, with the release of the Rage
card game, I am looking for Werewolf books with more emphasis on culture,
myths and personal drama, not combat.
 The Garou's main enemy is the Wyrm and its minions. These guys are nasty
and vile. They are also largely unredeemable. While they may be tragic in
whatever brought them to the Wyrm, once they are in its coils, they must
be destroyed. Leave it for Mage or Vampire to wrestle with the moral
issues of black white and gray. Werewolves don't bother with such
civilized trivialities - they know evil when they see it (even if they are
wrong). Don't hesitate to make the Wyrm's minions as vile as imaginable.
 However, other antagonists besides the Wyrm, such as hunters or
scientists interested only in discovery, are not so ethically clear. These
could give the players some moral dilemmas. Other shapeshifters can also
haunt the underdeveloped guilt complex of the Garou; they were wronged by
their cousins long ago and don't easily forget.

What I'm Looking For
 I would like to see proposals for historical sourcebooks from any period
in history. However, I will demand that the author show some understanding
of the history in question, and has his/her facts correct. I do not want
to see modern Garou dropped into historical situations; the tribes were
different back then - show me how. Part of any historical sourcebook is
revealing how culture was different in the period in question.
 I am interested in alternative looks at history and our whole modern
scientific paradigm. We think of science as revealing the truth of the
world, but as Mage makes clear, it is simply another way of creating the
world. For Garou, myths are creation stories, but not always of the
distant past. The tale of a modern Garou's defeat of the Wyrm strengthens
their world view, recreates it again. Creation is now. Think about this
and what it means. Then send me a proposal.

Mage: The Ascension
Send submissions to: Phil Brucato

 In Mage, we try to drag philosophy and spirituality screaming through the
streets of hell, carving a path to Ascension through the Gothic-Punk
wasteland. Remember that magick stems from belief, not from dusty tomes or
experience points. Prospective writers should be familiar with the second
edition Mage rulebook (due October 1995), and hopefully any supplements
for the game as well. This is not AD&D; mages are enlightened beings, not
lightning-bolt machines.
 The most important question a writer can ask herself is why. Why is this
happening? Why does this character act this way? What made him who he is?
How did he Awaken? What does he want out of life? Stories should follow a
logical progression, and characters should act in a logical fashion.
Things should never just happen out of the writer's whim; they should flow
from some set of circumstances (thought the circumstances themselves may
be pretty weird). 
 Know your subjects. I try to fit writers to projects reflecting their
field of expertise. Some research is essential; I don't want writers who
get their ideas of magick from bad Conan novels. Remember, too, that there
will be a good number of Mage players who know a great deal about "real"
magick, and who perhaps even practice it. While I would rather avoid
specific references to "real-world" faiths, Mage magick should still have
roots in reality. Do your research!
 If you're doing a sourcebook or fiction story, concentrate on
problem-solving, dilemmas and moral choices rather than on dragon-slaying
or Technomancer-battling. All the same, try to keep the action engaging,
atmospheric and exciting. Mage walks a fine line between intellectual
pondering and visceral action. Try to include a little of both.
 Things I do not want:
 * City or Area Sourcebooks: These have been done to death by Vampire and
Werewolf. I am not doing any city sourcebooks, and the few area ones I
have planned are already contracted. Please don't even send proposals for
them. 
 One exception: If anyone out there can write me a good book about Africa,
South America or the Far East, I would love to do one. I would prefer to
have some startling new take on the area (not, "A Supernatural Fodor's
Guide to Africa"), preferably one inspired by personal experience there. I
do not want a standard sourcebook; I do not want stereotypes. If I can't
release some book that gives me some mystic insight into that area, I
don't want to do it.
 * Tradition or Technocracy Books: They're already taken.
 * Books of Rotes and Talismans: Mage is about using your imagination. I
feel that books of spell lists run counter to that idea. 
 * Scenario Books: They don't sell and they really don't work well for
Storyteller games, especially ones as open-ended as Mage.
 A few Mage truisms to ponder:
 * Creation is an ongoing process.
 * Reality is as you perceive it; enlightenment can work wonders.
 * All things have a reason, and each thing has it's place.
 * The deepest black and purest white are still only shades of gray.
 * There's no such thing as a free lunch.
 * A mage's greatest foe is himself.
 Character statistics and Chantry/Construct write-ups should follow the
format presented in published Mage products. 

Wraith: The Oblivion
Send submission care of: Richard Dansky

What It's About
 Wraith concerns itself with the travails and adventures of those spirits
unable to rest quietly after their mortal shells pass away. Set in a world
that is a ghost of our own, Wraith has all the majesty and grandeur of a
crumbling gothic cathedral. The soul-searing effects of irreversible decay
and the transcendent beauty of pure spirituality are juxtaposed here in
the Shadowlands and Skinlands where the spirits of the Restless Dead walk.
While the overall tone of the game is somber, there are moments of hope
and joy to be found among the Restless more intense than a living woman or
man could hope to experience. After all, men and women can love until
death do them part. Wraiths, on the other hand, have all eternity.
 Wraith is also a game of bitter struggle. Central to the game is the
conflict between Psyche and Shadow, the light and dark sides of the
characters' personae. Underlying everything each wraith does is the
terrible fight not to succumb to the lures of Oblivion, the spiritual
darkness which finds its echo in each soul's Shadow. 

Writing for Wraith
 The most important thing in writing for Wraith is to create strong
characters with interesting stories. Remember, only those spirits who have
unfinished business and the Passion to deal with it after death become
wraiths in the first place, so writing about ghostly nebbishes is contrary
to the spirit of the game. Similarly, this is not a game of character
"types". Remember that it is each wraith's individual Passions that drive
her existence, and generic characters whose actions can be predicted from
their wardrobe also run counter to what Wraith is all about.
 Wraith is derived from the traditional ghost story. However, there are a
lot of ghost story traditions, and I'm trying to incorporate all of them
into the game. Just because the ghost stories most of us are familiar with
are from the "Dead European Male" tradition doesn't mean that Wraith is
going to ignore all of the other dead people in the world. Remember, what
I'm most interested in is strong characters with strong stories, and I
don't care if those stories come from Tierra del Fuego or Tienamen. If you
have an idea for a sourcebook, make sure that your idea is going to be
accessible to as wide a range of Storytellers as possible. Bear in mind
that the story you want to tell should be only one of many that can be
told about the people and places in your book. Make certain that other
Storytellers can take your characters and locations and make them their
own.
 So talk to me. Wraith is a game of Passions, after all, so give me the
ideas for sourcebooks and stories that have your passion behind them. Both
history and physics get a bit fluid with Wraith, so give me your best
proposal without worrying if it "fits" with any mythical Master Plan I
have for the game. If you can tell me stories that can pique my interest,
with characters whom I can genuinely care about, I'll trust you to tell
those same stories and share those same characters with the world. 

Changeling: The Dreaming
Send submissions care of: Ian Lemke

What It's About
 Changeling is a game of modern fantasy. It is a return to childhood
fantasy; a time when you could fight legions of dark knights, slay the
fire-breathing dragon and still make it home in time for dinner. The
stories told in this game are about beings who live in a realm of fantasy
all their own, and yet the fantasy is dying, as they find themselves
slowly slipping into the coming Autumn. They must continually struggle to
keep the dream alive.

Writing for Changeling
 Changeling sourcebooks will have a very different tone and feel from the
previous books in the Storyteller line. This is a game of fantasy, and
though it has its dark side, it is the wonderful and the fantastic which
should be emphasized. However, changelings are real people who have real
lives. This duality is important to kept in mind.
 A strong knowledge of faerie lore is not necessary (though it is helpful)
when writing for Changeling. However, strong descriptive ability and a
good sense of storytelling is very important. Changeling is in many ways a
game about art and creativity. This can be revealed through colorful and
vibrant descriptions. The reader should be able to easily visualize your
writing.
 The duality of being a changeling - living in one world and yet being a
part of another - should be a constant theme. And though the world of the
changelings is a fantastic and wondrous place, the edges are fading as the
color is slowly washed away, as the drab, mundane world slowly returns.
Banality is always a threat hovering over the characters' heads. More than
anything else, they fear that one day they will forget and never awaken
again.
 The mythic aspect of Changeling should not be ignored. In a sense, the
fae are living breathing stories, so everything about them should be a
part of the greater story. Changeling stories should be "larger than life"
and should possess strong mythic elements. Changeling heroes are heroes in
the truest sense of the word, and its villains are equally villainous.

What I'm Looking For
 Changeling is still in its early stages, leaving ample room for
creativity. Ideas for new directions to take the setting are always
welcome. I am particularly looking for authors with a strong sense of the
wondrous and with vivid descriptive abilities.

Things to remember when writing for any White Wolf Game:

Theme and Mood
 When writing a story or sourcebook, do not lose sight of the goal.
Sometimes, you have to step back from all the details and ask: what is
this about?  That's your theme. It is the glue which holds together all
the scenes in your story. The mood is how you tell the story. 
 Remember that our take on gaming comes from a storytelling emphasis.
Cause and effect operates off poetic physics, not Newtonian. In other
words, things happen because the story demands it, not because A logically
always leads to B. But don't forget that your story is interactive; others
contribute.

Have Fun
 Above all, remember that this is meant to be a Storytelling game. This
means, like all stories, it should be entertaining for all involved. This
doesn't mean talking down to your audience or sacrificing mature themes.
It simply means that you must skillfully juggle the needs of the story
while keeping the audience awake. Sometimes, it is not the story, but the
Storyteller that is important. 

Grammar and Formatting
 Please run all submissions through a spell-check and grammar-check.
Sloppy submissions impress no one. A professional attitude is more
important in the long run than a good idea. Ideas are easy to come by;
it's finding reliable, quality writers that's difficult.
 * Character statistics should be written as per examples given in the
following products: Chicago By Night (Vampire), Rage Across Australia
(Werewolf), The Book of Chantries (Mage). Formats for any locales (caerns,
Chantries/Constructs, etc.) should also follow the format presented in
published products. 
 * Pay attention to the way we handle sexist language in our products. 
Use "humanity" or "people" instead of "mankind." Alternate genders when
using third person singular pronouns in nonspecific manners.  Try to write
in the plural to avoid the situation, but do not force yourself to do so. 
Eventually it just sounds silly to write "theirs" all the time.
 * Standard printers' style calls for commas and periods to be placed
within quotation marks.  Example: The Garou bristled at being called a
"Charach."
 * For spelling, please refer to the Lexicon for the particular game.
Additionally, use Americanized English - no one, not no-one; reorganize,
not re-organize; color, not colour; meter, not metre.  The only exception
to this rule is "theatre."
 * Roleplay, roleplayer and roleplaying are not hyphenated.
 * Write in active voice - "he threw the chair,"  not "the chair was
thrown by him." This is very important!
 * Avoid the use of be verbs.  Try to be descriptive, not defining. 
"Edwards noticed the problem first," not "Edwards was the first to notice
the problem."
 * Hyphenate compound proper nouns.  "Italian-American." For hyphenation
of particular words, refer to a dictionary or the lexicon.
 * Do not place a comma before the last part of a series unless such is
necessary to avoid confusion.
 * "Affect" is generally used as a verb and means "to influence." 
"Effect" means "cause" when used as a verb and "result" when used as a
noun.
 * In general, avoid the use of contractions except in quoted material.
 * Only use apostrophes for the possessive or to indicate missing letters
(the '20s, not the '20's; UFOs, not UFO's).
 * B.C. comes after the year while A.D. comes before (123 B.C. and A.D.
1066).
 * Write in the present tense as much as possible.  Do not change tenses
or persons in the middle of a paragraph or section, and try to be as
consistent as possible.

Capitalization
 In general, game-specific (referring to a stat on a character sheet)
terminology is capitalized, while setting-specific terminology is not.
Occasional exceptions for items of a titular or ritualistic nature are
made (i.e. Justicar, Philodox). Items are also capitalized when they
possess meanings other than those of standard English usage (such as
Werewolf's Banes, which are evil spirits rather than items detrimental to
a given foe).
 As per standard English usage, specific places, persons, et al. are
always capitalized. In addition, to reflect our esteem for the position of
Storyteller, this title is always capitalized.
 One exception for Vampire: the use of "kine" in reference to mortals
rather than its standard meaning of "cattle." This is left lower-cased, to
reflect the utter contempt most Kindred have for their lessers, and to
imply that vampires indeed see no distinction between humans and animals.
 Vampire: clan, frenzy, vampire, prince, primogen, story, scene,
chronicle;
but: Justicar, Archon, Blood Bond, Attribute, Ability, Talent, Discipline,
Background Trait, Virtue, Conscience, Humanity, Willpower, Lupine, Prince
Lodin, Rotschreck, Lick, Kindred, the Embrace, the Kiss, the Damned,
Cainite
 Werewolf: breed, auspice, tribe, caern, sept, moot, werewolf, vampire,
fetish, talen, fomori, story, scene, metis, chronicle;
 but: Gift, Philodox, Ahroun, Attribute, Ability, Bane, Rage, Gnosis,
Leech, Sept of the Green, Litany
 The (game-specific and ritualistic) Forms of the Garou are capitalized:
Homid, Glabro, Crinos, Hispo, Lupus. When referring to breeds, however,
the words "homid" and "lupus" are lower-case.
 Example: "The lupus Garou assumed Homid form to pursue the Pentex agent."
 Mage: Mage is the exception to the aformentioned capitalization rules,
for in Mage we attempt to present a lofty, archaic style similar to
Puritan/Enlightenment texts, in which many terms were routinely
capitalized. Thus, the words "mage," "cabal" and "focus" are not
capitalized; everything else is.
 See Wraith books and Changeling books for examples of capitalization for
those games.

Clarification of Terms:
 In Werewolf, the term homid now refers only to the Garou breed (a
werewolf born of a human mother). Use the term human in all other
instances.
Enumeration
 For our purposes, zero through nine are spelled out, while 10 and larger
numbers are enumerated. Exceptions to this are statistics and numbers in
parentheses, such as (difficulty 6). In addition, a huge number, such as
"a million" or "a hundred thousand," should be spelled out.
For All Computers:
 * Do not format your work - keep everything flush left, do not center
text and do not put it on right justification.  Let it have that ragged
edge.
 * Do not indent paragraphs.
 * Include a hardcopy (printout) and word processor file.
 * Do double space hardcopy.
 * Do not double space the computer file.
 * Put all text in 12-point Times font.
 * Do not bold, italicize, underline or otherwise mess with the text.
 * Leave at least a one-inch margin all around.
 * Save non-Mac files in two of these forms: ASCII, WordPerfect 5.0,
Microsoft Word or Wordstar. (We use MS Word 5,1 for the Macintosh - do not
send Word 6.0 or greater files. If you are using Word 6.0, we feel for you
and hope you come to your senses soon and downgrade).
 * Use 3.5-inch disks.
Mac MS Word Files:
 * Italicize quotations.
 * Bold all section heads.
 * We use a hierarchy of headers.  It starts with chapter for our chapter
titles, and then goes 1, 2 and 3, all placed within brackets.  The way we
do this is as follows:
<chapter>Chapter Two:  History
<1>Introduction
<2>The Quiet Time
<3>Michael
 Please include these so that we can get an idea of how you would like the
text to look. These numbers do not represent sequential order, but type
size; <2> is a larger typeface than <3>.
 * When putting in a dash (not a hyphen) use an em dash.  This is
generally done as "Option" + "Command" + "-."  This creates a "-" instead
of a "-." Put one space on either side of the em dash - as in this
example.
 * Follow all other rules defined above.

Good luck!
Send submissions to:
(care of particular game developer)
White Wolf Publications
780 Park North Blvd.
Suite 100
Clarkston, GA 30021


RECORD OF DISCLOSURE

TO: WHITE WOLF
780 Park North Blvd.
Suite 100
Clarkston, GA 30021

I wish to submit for your consideration, subject to all of the conditions
below, the idea or item described in the section provided below. I am the
sole and exclusive owner (or the authorized representative [parent, agent,
etc.] of     the owner) of said item or idea and am of legal age and free
to make agreements relative to the submission of this idea or item.

DESCRIPTION OF IDEA OR ITEM:

 
 
 

(Use attachments if necessary for fuller description. If you wish, you may
also include photos, drawings, etc. If the item or idea is patented, you
may furnish us with a copy of the patent since it defines your rights in
the subject matter thereof.)

I submit my idea or item voluntarily and on a non-confidential basis, and
I understand that this submission by me and its acceptance by White Wolf
does not, in whole or in part, establish or create by implication, or
otherwise, any relationship between White Wolf and me not expressed
herein. I further understand and agree that White Wolf, in its own
judgment, may accept or reject my submission and shall not be obligated to
me in any way, with respect to my submission, until White Wolf shall, at
its own election, enter into a properly executed written agreement with
me, and then only according to all of the terms of said agreement. If no
agreement is concluded, I shall rely solely upon such rights as I may have
under patent, copyright, and trademark laws.

I agree that White Wolf may have a reasonable period in which to consider
this submission. I wish White Wolf to return the submitted material to me
when consideration has been given to this submission (if I have provided
postage costs beforehand), but shall not hold White Wolf responsible for
items or materials which are accidentally damaged or lost. I understand
that it is in my own interest to retain a copy of all materials submitted.

I further understand that the acceptance by White Wolf of this disclosure
does not create or imply: (a) any financial or other obligation of any
kind on the part of White Wolf; (b) any confidential relationship or
guarantee of secrecy; and (c) any recognition or acknowledgment of either
novelty or originality.

I agree that White Wolf may photograph, photocopy, or otherwise reproduce,
for its own records only, any material submitted by me herewith or
subsequently with respect to said idea or item, whether accepted or
rejected.

PLEASE PRINT  
Signature:  
Name :  
Date:
Address:  
City:  
State:  
Zip Code: 
Telephone:  
Country:


-- 
Rick Jones         And these blast points -- too accurate for Sandpeople.
rick@blkbox.com    Only Imperial Stormtroopers are so precise.
Meyrick@aol.com    	--Star Wars (what WAS Obi-Wan smoking that day?)

