Helping Hands Charity (HHC)

HHC is a charity organisation, which doing its best to help the poor, 
the misfits and the outsiders of society. It is also controlled by the 
Technocracy and one of its more subtle tools. HHC is involved in 
activities like soup kitchens and providing shelter, but it is most 
aimed at helping people become normal citizens despite their social 
disadvantages. HHC support people through counselling, sponsors 
programs for education, help people get new jobs and homes. This 
is completely innocuous, and the people in HHC is generally 
dedicated people with a real concern for the poor.

HHC is hardly the largest charity organisation around, but it is quite 
effective. Much of its success stem from the fact that it cooperates 
with other charity organisations, churches, the Red Cross and the 
local community. It seems to have a knack for getting on amicable 
terms with many groups, and most of the time manage to stay out 
of politics, even in sensitive areas. It has gained a fair amount of 
media coverage, and Emma von Kellstahl, chairwoman of Helping 
Hands Charity Trust Fund, has appeared several times in the news. 
She is charismatic, efficient and quite devoted to the organisation. 
She often personally visit the poor and needy to help them, and 
isn't afraid to get her Armani dress dirty. On the other hand, she is 
equally at home among the crust of society, where she get much 
support. Her contacts have proven very useful to HHC, and it can be 
argued that the current organisation is almost completely her work. 
All in all, HHC is a friendly and open organisation. It is quite easy to 
get in touch with it, even if Emma often is hard to reach since she is 
so busy.

Few suspect that Emma is a mage. A visit to her apartment would 
reveal a extremely well ordered collection of art with subtle occult 
themes and shelves with old and valuable manuscripts in forgotten 
languages. She is active in several Masonic groups, some quite 
esoteric. If pressed, she will admit that she collects esoteric art and 
books as an hobby, and that she is member of a few Masonic 
groups, but mainly groups involved in charity. In fact she is a full 
mage, a member of Ordo Rosae Crucis, a Rosicrucian fraction of 
Order of Hermes.

Or rather, she was. Some time ago, she was captured by the 
Technocracy which cloned her. Her clone, loyal to the Technocracy, 
helped them destroy her Chantry. Afterwards, she turned to HHC. 
With some slight help from the Technocracy, she set out to build it 
up. The original Emma was involved in charity, mostly as a kind of 
balance from her work as a executive and her activity as a mage. 
The clone have retained her interests, and even become slightly 
more philanthropic. But the most important reason is the fact that 
HHC furthers the Technocracy's interests in a very subtle way. By 
making people become normal, well adjusted citizens, HHC 
strengthens the mainstream paradigm. By subtly monitoring the 
people HHC interacts with, the Technocracy can find Orphans, 
potential troublemakers or recruits for their projects. And by giving 
them jobs and homes, the Technocracy can direct the right persons 
to the right places. All in all, HHC is doing a lot of good for people, 
but it is also good for the Technocracy.

The Technocracy do not directly interact with HHC other than 
Emma. She receives her orders, subtly coded and included in 
normal mail (when they reprogrammed her mind, the responsible 
technomancers added a decryption-system among other things). 
These orders are often almost subconscious, and she isn't 
completely aware of them. Most of the time she has quite free 
reins. All of Emmas activities are completely normal and legal, and 
it would be very hard to find any evidence of something amiss. She 
is using her contacts and allies to further HHC and connect it to 
other charity organisations. When hiring contractors for repairs, she 
hires from Technocracy-controlled groups which will in secret 
install their surveillance systems. 

The Technocracy has full access to the files of HHC, but they are 
mostly unimportant. They have installed subtle surveillance 
measures in several locations where HHC is active, and is constantly 
keeping track of Emma (since they still believe other Tradition 
mages may know about her). Most of HHC is not bugged, since it 
would be counterproductive and isn't cost-effective. Most of the 
organisations purpose is after all completely legit, to help the poor 
and challenged. The Technocracy is doing its best to make sure that 
only dedicated people work in HHC, and they are discouraging any 
forms of corruption or activities which could damage the 
organisation. They also support HHC somewhat, by anonymous 
donations (lots of small sums from all around. The total sums 
involved are peanuts to the NWO and Syndicate, but quite a lot of 
money to a charity organisation). Since HHC has placed much capital 
in a few banks, the organisation has also gained some power over 
them.

Emma is almost her old self. She has a few new quirks, like that she 
has stopped smoking and that she is much more involved in charity 
than before. A few of her old friends has noticed her change, but 
think it is due to her commitment. She is also not irreplaceable. If 
she disappeared, it would be a blow against HHC, but it would 
probably still continue its work, a bit less efficiently. In fact, she 
has designed its administration to work quite well in her absence, 
and she spends much of her time lobbying for the organisation in 
media or among other groups. 

The most radical change in Emma is the fact that she no longer is a 
mage. The cloning could copy everything she was, except her 
avatar. She have not really noticed it, since she thinks she has far 
too little time left for magical studies. If she would realise the truth, 
she would probably just shrug it of and continue her work. 

HHC can be used in a story as allies and helpers. Let the players 
meet the dedicated members and really learn to trust the 
organisation, perhaps even helping it and Emma. After they have 
become used to seeing HHC as a good and humanitarian force in an 
otherwise dark world, let them begin to realise the truth. Slowly 
the facade crumbles, and the players will realise who they have 
unknowingly served. What seemed too be pure altruism turned out 
to be tainted.

All in all, HHC present the players with a subtle and sticky moral 
dilemma. On one hand, it is really helping people. On the other 
hand, it is helping them become good, mainstream citizens 
indoctrinated by the Technocracy. Are they going to stop a well 
functioning, uncorrupted charity organisation because of their 
principles? Are they going to let the Technocracy continue to 
streamline people? And if they really want to disrupt HHC, how will 
they do it? Killing Emma wouldn't work, and would only create a 
martyr, if she wasn't replaced by a clone. There is very little dirt in 
the structure, and spreading malicious rumours about such an 
obviously beneficent organisation requires much talent and 
contacts. And if they really manage to stop HHC, what about other 
charity organisations?

