
X-Topic-No: 12
Date:  Tue, 30 Aug 1994 12:04:00 -0400
From: "/G=Christopher/S=Kobar/OU=DTT.US.NATTAX/"@SMDELOIT.LANGATE.sprint.com
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Subject: Book of Shadows
Message-ID:  <"Tue Aug 30 12:04:56 199401*/G=Christopher/S=Kobar/OU=DTT.US.NATTAX/O=SMDELOIT/PRMD=LANGATE/ADMD=TELEMAIL/C=US/"@MHS>

     I would have to agree with those of you who believe that the foci 
     limitations on the Technomantic Trad's is not too much of a hindrance. 
      One of our players had a VA and is now beginning a SoE.  He complains 
     constantly about how 1) he should be able to do just about anything he 
     likes (using the old "but it would be cool for the story" 
     justification), and 2) he can never defend himself in time from a 
     quick enemy.
     
     He was just cornered by three MiBs in last night's session.  Now, they 
     did not jump on him, nor blast him with any magicks, nor even restrain 
     him in any way -- they simply discovered what they felt was a 
     trespasser and cornered him in a storage room in a mall.  Sure, they 
     had a few handguns trained on him, but I'm not mean -- no shots were 
     fired so long as the player's character cooperated by answering their 
     questions.  In fact, the only "magick" they did was to counter his 
     effects and probe his surface thoughts to determine what he knew 
     (pretty coincidental, in this case).
     
     Problem is, the player whined endlessly just because his magick was 
     able to be countered.  He also whined that he did not have enough time 
     to do something useful, but in truth he had a number of turns before 
     any of the MiB's arrived.  C'mon, now.  And finally, the fool started 
     babbling about how he had "done" whatever it was that the MiB's seemed 
     to think he had done (?), yelling that he just liked to have fun!!!  
     Well of course they're going to think he's a Marauder!!  And worst of 
     all (and this is a BIG HINT for my player), he didn't even think to 
     watch his ass on the drive home or imagine that these guys just might 
     be able to locate him later on!!!
     
     I guess what I'm really saying is that players need to learn how to 
     exploit every available ability their character possesses.  But they 
     must not only know their character's strengths, but also their 
     weaknesses (foci/attributes/etc.).  Within this framework, a good 
     player should be able to come up with a really good character, one 
     that can be played not only convincingly, but entertainingly and most 
     of all, heroically.
     
     To address the two complaints of many players of technomancers, then:
     
     1) Remember:  the limits of the spheres are exactly the same limits 
     that any other mage faces.  Don't think that just because you "think" 
     that some wild nucleon cannon would be cool for your character that he 
     can have/create it.  No way.  Nuclear (or whatever) is likely beyond 
     that charcter's limits, and therefore off-limits, despite any claimed 
     "fit" that the object would have with the character.  Remember, 
     balance must be maintained amongst ALL the players.
     
     2) So you're complaining about speed?  First, lay down some 
     preventative effects before you are about to enter into potentially 
     dangerous situations.  Second, learn as much about the place you are 
     in and the opponents you face before you actually face conflict.  
     Three, use misdirection-effects to distract your foes and buy yourself 
     more time.  Four, incapacitate the offensive capabilities of you foes. 
      Five, neutralize foes' own magicks. Six, initiate your own offensive 
     capabilities.  Seven, try to scare the crap out of your enemies.  And 
     finally, eight, get the hell out of there if you're still going to get 
     your ass kicked, or at least hide where they can't find you and then 
     start over again!!!
     
     This can easily be remembered as DIMINISH
     
        D -- Defensive/preventive magick
        I -- Information gathering
        M -- Misdirect foes' attention
        I -- Incapacitate foes' offense
        N -- Neutralize foe's magick
        I -- Initiate offensive magick
        S -- Scare enemies (if possible)
        H -- Haul ass/hide out
     
     Any similar mnemonic can be devised, but what is most important is the 
     fact that the player exploit every one of his character's strengths 
     and take into consideration all of his weaknesses BEFORE ever placing 
     himself into a situation where there will likely be some real threat 
     to life and limb.  Foci may be a limitation, but they are still a lot 
     better than nothing.
     
     And for those players that bitch about not being able to "physically 
     damage" their opponents, carry a damn gun, why don't you?  Your 
     enemies do, so it says something!  Remember, every action does not 
     have to originate with magick.  Magick should be subtle wheneber 
     possible, and even the strange gizmos that a Son of Ether might 
     produce from under his lab coat in a tense moment need not shoot a 
     blast of electricity.  More likely, it simply makes a strange whirring 
     noise and pulses with blue static, suddenly followed by the strangely 
     coincidental explosion in the overhead power box that sends a 
     high-voltage cable swinging down to brush against the suddeenly 
     leaping MiB, a burst of crackling light coalescing around him leaving 
     him unconscious after hitting the pavement.
     
     Quit whining folks -- learn to be creative.
     
     Aurelius
     
     PS: sorry Doug, but you need to be prodded with something and I felt 
     that others might find some agreement with my view.
