From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Mon Mar 31 19:22:05 1995
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from letterbox.rl.ac.uk (letterbox.rl.ac.uk [130.246.8.100])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.9) with SMTP
	id TAA12076 for <NV91-ASA@NADA.KTH.SE>;
	Fri, 31 Mar 1995 19:22:01 +0200
From: CHEEYUNG@VAX.LSE.AC.UK
Message-Id: <199503311722.TAA12076@mail.nada.kth.se>
Via: uk.ac.lse.vax; Fri, 31 Mar 1995 18:20:25 +0100
Date: Fri, 31 MAR 95 18:23:50 GMT
To: NV91-ASA <NV91-ASA@NADA.KTH.SE>
Subject: Beyond the Good Death : yet another look at the Euthanatos
Mailer: Janet_Mailshr V3.3a (02-Feb-1989)


Preamble
~~~~~~~~~
I had originally conceived this to be a sub-tradition of the Euthanatos, but
it quickly assumed its own momentum. Most interpretations of the Euthanatos
seem to revolve around the Tradition's supposed association with WRAITH. My
argument however is that the Euthanatos's sphere is Entropy, not Spirit; life
and death are considered equals in a greater cycle of existence. Furthermore,
there are constant hints that the Tradition originated in the subcontinent of
India. Apologies to any real Saivas out there, but there are just too many
uncanny parallels between MAGE and Hindu metaphysics.

					Colin Y.S.C.
					(Cheeyung@vax.lse.ac.uk)

P.S. "Euthanatos" has been used here as both the singular and plural senses
of the word. Anyone who has a problem with that can speak to my lawyer.

BACKGROUND
~~~~~~~~~~~
	"Thou art the final resting place of this universe."
				- the Bhagavad Gita, 9.18.

The Euthanatos today has adherents the world over, from the dark streets of
New Orleans to the jungles of Bali. The Tradition however bases itself in the
land of its birth, India. Unlike the Akashic Brotherhood in China or the
Celestial Chorus at Rome, the Euthanatos has never linked its fortunes with
that of a kingdom, polity or nation. Instead, it sees its mission as one to
all humanity. Instead of trying to influence a single culture, the Euthanatos
work towards Ascension at a highly individualized level.

Towards this, the Tradition has often worked through localized, mystical cults
which emphasize one's personal relationship with the Divine. Throughout its
existence, the Euthanatos has manipulated the cults of Baal and Anath, the
dark worship of Ahriman, the Shiite sect of Assassins, the cult of Rangda,
the Thuggees, and the Saiva-Shakta sects of India. The Euthanatos itself is
not a religion, but its doctrine of death and transmigration shares much in
common with religious mysticism, especially Hinduism which it influenced and
was itself influenced by.

The Euthanatos do not truly worship Shiva or Kali, or any of the other gods
of Hinduism. Instead, Shiva is seen as the personification of the Euthanatos
ideal, to be contemplated and emulated. Many modern mages feel that the
religious trappings of Saiva, the adoration of Shiva, are no longer necessary
as an aid to Ascension, but many others feel that Saiva remains important as
a focus for the Tradition.

Briefly, Shiva represents all that is dark and uncontrollable in the universe.
In Hinduism, he is one of the two greatest manifestations of the Divine, 
alongside Vishnu, the embodiment of light and order. All of Shiva's aspects
are metaphors for the many faces of Entropy : the god of storms, haunter of
tombs, master of ghosts, bringer of pestilence, lord of the dice, drinker of
poison, and the Destroyer of worlds. His dance keeps the universe in motion,
and as his breath created this existence, so his hand shall destroy it.

HISTORY
~~~~~~~~
	"It is eternal, without beginning and without end."
				- Katha Upanishad, 6.12.

The Euthanatos locates its history at least 5000 years back, to the Harappan
culture of the Indus Valley, one of the first civilizations to appear on Earth.
In the ruins of Moenjadaro, "the City of the Dead", clay seals have been found
depicting a Shiva-type figure, horned and seated in yogic position, surrounded
by wild beasts. The Euthanatos weathered the destruction of the Harappan
culture and the Aryan invasions circa 1000 BCE. They adapted and assimilated
the Vedic religion of the Aryans. By the 2nd century BCE, the worship of
Shiva was becoming powerful again in India. The Euthanatos today continues to
centre its activities at Calcutta, the sprawling capital of Madras named
after Kali, spouse of Shiva and goddess of destruction.

Curiously, the Tradition is most commonly known by a Greek name. This is the
name which the Tradition has accepted for itself in western circles, allegedly
because the Greeks were the first "Europeans" to encounter the Tradition.
Although the Euthanatos has long had a foothold in Mesopotamia, it was only
in the 4th century BCE when they encountered the Greeks. More accurately, it
was probably the Greeks who first reached the Euthanatos, marching under the
banner of Alexander the Great. Alexander reached Baluchistan (modern-day
Pakistan) and sailed down the Indus, and Greek ambassadors were later sent
to the court of the Mauryan empire in North India and Afghanistan. The
Euthanatos too probably travelled westwards. It is known that there were
Indian ascetics in Athens and the great cities of the Near East by the time
of Christ.

The name which the Greeks gave the Euthanatos seems to be an attempt to
translate the concept of Moksha, the blissful state of extinction which the
Euthanatos hold to be Ascension. The Euthanatos themselves refer to their
Tradition simply as the Sadhaka, "mages". Some old texts also have the name
Kapalikas, "Bearers of the Skull" in Sanskrit, from the old custom of 
carrying a human skull as a begging bowl.

Paradigm
~~~~~~~~~
	"... and one is released from the jaws of death."
				- Katha Upanishad, 3.5.

Humanity is trapped within an endless cycle of rebirth akin to imprisonment.
This is because of the cosmic law of Karman, that consequences of one's deeds
will pursue one relentlessly. Even death is no escape, since Karman follows
one through all incarnations, condemning a person to rebirth in order to reap
the fruits of actions not yet "ripened" in this life. Ascension is escape
from this cycle (called Samsara), to attain a state of blissful non-being,
Moksha. Death in this world is not true death since it simply means a return
to the cosmic Wheel (the Sri Chakra) for subsequent reincarnation. There is
only one true Death, Moksha, which is the Good Death that means eternal
release from desire, suffering and individual consciousness.

By nurturing one's Karman, one can attain Ascension. There are three paths
to do so: the disinterested execution of duty, the accumulation of knowledge
and the practice of mysticism. The Euthanatos combine all three paths in
their Tradition, and hence follow the perfect path towards Ascension.

Since Karman means that each person is ultimately responsible for her own
fate, it is useless to attempt any grand-scale modification of Reality as the
other Traditions believe. It is futile to try and live another's life for him.
But as mysticks, the Euthanatos are moved to assist those who are unaware of
Reality's true nature.

Life is precious to the Euthanatos, since it is only in life that one can work
towards Ascension. In fact, life is too precious to be abused pursuing goals
which are not only worthless in themselves but may also jeopardise one's
destiny by corrupting one's Karman. The best thing that can be done is to
hasten the turning of the Wheel. Killing the profane not only returns their
being, their Atman, to the Wheel where they can be reincarnated into new lives,
but it also halts their disasterous journey towards karmic retribution.

ESCHATOLOGY
~~~~~~~~~~~~
As far as the Euthanatos are concerned, life and death are one and the same.
Death, material death, simply means a return to the Sri Chakra, the Wheel.
Death is only regrettable insofar as much of one's knowledge towards Ascension
may become forgotten in one's new incarnation, but since Karman follows one
from life to life, this is at best a temporary setback.

Wraiths are merely part of the process of Samsara, the cycle of rebirth. The
"afterlife" contains no higher spiritual truths. Wraiths remain subject to
the Karman which they accumulated in life, but in their present state are
unable to continue pursuit of Ascension, which is why the Euthanatos value
life so much. Many Euthanatos despise wraiths. On the one hand, wraiths are
delaying the Wheel of Reincarnation. On the other, they only display their
ignorance in thinking the living world any more 'real' or 'lasting' than
their own.

COSMOLOGY AND MAGICK
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
	"...and by the devotions of Ravana was the throne of Indra,
		king of the gods, shaken."
					- the Ramayana

The Euthanatos perceive the universe as insubstantial, being made of the
same substance as thought and consciousness. But although it is insubstantial,
the world is not devoid of meaning, since it is through the world that
Ascension is achieved. The vast majority of people fail to grasp the true
nature of Reality because of Maya, the power of illusion exerted by the
universe itself, which deludes people into thinking that the world is solid,
"real" and immutable. Maya freezes Reality and blocks off the Spirit realms.
It has a useful role in the cosmos, but the Technocracy has perverted it and
turned it into their own instrument.

The enlightened can see beyond the veil of Maya. Since reality is of the
same stuff as consciousness, it can be manipulated by sentient thought. Maya
however constantly works to foil the mage. Only through grace ("arul", or
Arete) can the mage transcend Maya and move towards Ascension.

Furthermore, the universe is diffused with Shakti, divine energy. This energy
comes from the Brahman, the One spoken of by the Celestial Chorus. Shakti is
therefore Prime or Quintessence, and is the fount of all creation. Without
Shakti, nothing exists. Shakti is accessible to the enlightened, and can be
employed for all manner of siddhi, or magickal effects.

Entropy, the sphere of the Euthanatos, is envisioned in Shiva as the most
important power in the cosmos. Entropy is perceived, ironically, as part of
a greater order. Chaos and order are intrinsically related and balanced as
equals in the universe. (Fractals come as old hat to the Euthanatos.) This
is the metaphor of the Nataraja, Shiva as Lord of the Dance, whose wild,
unfettered movements measure the rhythm of the universe and keep it in
motion. Qlippothic Entropy is an abomination to the Euthanatos because it is
unbridled and meaningless, unconcerned with the greater scheme of things. It
is asat in Sanskrit, meaning "chaos" with connotations of something unholy
and apocalyptic, and is alien to the dualistic perfection of the Euthanatos
paradigm.



A Sanskrit Glossary
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Akasha - Hindu metaphysics lists five elements, four of which are identical
	to the Greek elements of fire, earth, water and air. The fifth and
	most subtle element is akasha, described as the material support for
	sound. The Technocracy denies the existence of akasha, claiming air
	to be the support for sound instead. Akasha is commonly translated
	as "ether", but can also be thought of as "quintessence" (the fifth
	essence).

N.B.	The word probably also lies behind the name of another Tradition,
	the Akashic Brotherhood. If this is the case, then the Brotherhood's
	name is really the Brotherhood of Ether (!!) or the Brotherhood of
	Quintessence.
	p.s. I know it's nit-picking (my favourite hobby) but the Oriental
	elements are NOT fire, earth, water, air and void, as suggested by
	the Akashic Tradition book and others. Taoist metaphysics holds the
	five elements (wu hsing) to be fire, earth, wood, water and gold.

Arul -	"grace", Arete.

Asat -	"chaos", Qlippothic Entropy and the Nephandi who use it.

Asrama - a Euthanatos chantry.

Asura -	an inhabitant of the infernal regions; any dark or malevolent spirit.

Atman -	The self which animates the individual and undergoes reincarnation;
	very broadly speaking, the soul.

Avatar - The part of the soul which is "divine", descended from the Godhood,
	and permits the use of magick.

Deva -	a "higher", usually benevolent, spirit like an Incarna or Celestine.

Kali -	"black female"; the Goddess as the Black Earth Mother, the dark
	and malevolent aspect of Nature.

Kapalikas - "bearer of the skull"; 1. a now extinct Saiva sect of ascetic
	mendicants who used a human skull as a begging bowl (historical);
	2. an ascetic sect of the Euthanatos; 3. a name for the Euthanatos
	in general.

Karman - also Karma. The concept that one's deeds affect one's own fate.

Karunya - The pity which moves the mystick to assist those who remain
	ignorant of Reality's true nature.

Loka -	"world", a region of the universe, denoted by its rulers and/or
	inhabitants, such as the sphere of Gaia or Stygia.

Maya -	Commonly but inaccurately translated as "illusion"; the power of
	the universe to disguise its true nature.

Moksha - Escape from the Wheel of Life and Death; Ascension.

Pashu -	"livestock"; derogatory name for Sleepers.

Pralaya - "doomsday"

Rakshasa - A Nephandus or demon, especially one using deceit and illusion.

Sadhaka - A Euthanatos mage.

Samadhi - A state of meditative grace, applied to the moment of Awakening
	or on completion of a Seeking.

Samsara - Transmigration, the material universe.

Shakti - Divine energy; Prime or quintessence.

Shiva -	The ideal of the Euthanatos; a Hindu deity portrayed with four arms,
	covered with ashes and serpents, with a third eye in his forehead.

Siddhi - Magick.

Sri Chakra - The Wheel of Life and Death.

Trailokya - "the Three Worlds" of High, Middle and Low Umbrae.

Trilaka - The mystical "third eye" which looks inwards, but can be used
	to release devastating power.

Yuga -	A cosmic period which comes in cycles of four, analogous to the
	Platonic gold, silver, bronze and iron ages. The yugas are not
	named for metals, but appropriately after throws in dice. The
	first and most glorious (double sixes) is krtayuga, followed by
	tetrayuga, dvaparayuga and finally kaliyuga (snakes' eyes)


