From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Fri Jun 11 03:15:48 1996
Status: RO
X-Status: A
Received: from mail5.netcom.com (root@mail5.netcom.com [192.100.81.141])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id DAA10091 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Tue, 11 Jun 1996 03:15:45 +0200
Received: (from daemon@localhost) by mail5.netcom.com (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id OAA06847; Sun, 9 Jun 1996 14:00:35 -0700
Received: from copper.ucs.indiana.edu (adashiel@copper.ucs.indiana.edu [129.79.1.4]) by mail5 (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id OAA06807; Sun, 9 Jun 1996 14:00:29 -0700
Received: (from adashiel@localhost) by copper.ucs.indiana.edu (8.6.11/8.6.11) id QAA09794; Sun, 9 Jun 1996 16:00:57 -0500
Date: Sun, 9 Jun 1996 02:01:42 -0500 (EST)
From: Abe Dashiell <adashiel@indiana.edu>
X-Sender: adashiel@copper.ucs.indiana.edu
To: mage-l@oracle.wizards.com
Subject: Mage...erm..."essay": The Homeless
Message-ID: <Pine.OSF.3.91.960609015820.10858A@copper.ucs.indiana.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
ReSent-Date: Sun, 9 Jun 1996 16:00:50 -0500 (EST)
ReSent-From: Abe Dashiell <adashiel@indiana.edu>
ReSent-To: wod-l@netcom.com
ReSent-Message-ID: <Pine.OSF.3.91.960609160050.28792A@copper.ucs.indiana.edu>
Sender: owner-wod-l@netcom.com
Precedence: list
Reply-To: wod-l@netcom.com

This all started as a thought exercise.  I don't have the urban nightmare 
book (can't even remember the name of it),  so I hope this isn't redundant.

-Abe

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE HOMELESS

By Abe Dashiell (adashiel@copper.ucs.indiana.edu)

Discussion

     Presented by Gunther Kohl, Order of Hermes

     In my continuing study of minor Awakened groups, I have found myself in
     a most unlikely place: the gutter. I had never really considered "skid
     row" to be a breeding ground of the enlightened, but as it turns out, I
     was wrong. Though we live among all walks of the average man, it has
     only recently occurred to me that very few of us truly experience life
     at the very bottom of the scale. Why should we? We have our magick, our
     chantries...our paradigm. The only thing that could possibly drag us
     down is ourselves. As I have ventured into the urban wilderness I have
     found that those of our kind who are contented to live in cardboard
     boxes, burning trash to stay warm and feeding on refuse are there
     because they are incapable of existing anywhere else. They have the
     gifts, certainly, to rise above their station, yet they do not. I once
     would have said that they live the way they do because they enjoy it,
     but I have since learned that nothing could be further from the truth.

     In our struggles against the forces of stasis, madness and oblivion to
     liberate reality, we have consistently overlooked an important piece of
     the equation: the Orphans. We discount them, underestimate them and
     often revile them, but we cannot ignore that they exist and that their
     numbers are growing. I do not profess to understand them; how anyone
     can Awaken without a paradigm to guide him is beyond my comprehension,
     but they are a force to be reckoned with. Too often we sweep them
     aside, leaving them without guidance or even a common understanding of
     the nature of reality. It is no small wonder that many have become
     disenfranchised, not only by us, but by Sleeper society as well.
     Admittedly some Orphans, like the Hollow Ones, are capable of finding
     some common ground upon which to build a community, but many others do
     not. They are forced to live along side their fellow man, incapable of
     sharing their much larger worlds with anyone other than themselves.
     Some are content with this and survive, but it is becoming apparent
     that an alarming number cannot.

     Forgive me, but to better explain myself, I must take an aside and
     delve into the messy realm of Sleeper politics and sociology. We all
     know that for some time the world of the mundane, at least in this
     country, has been shaped by an exaltation of "rugged individualism."
     Their leaders, in response, have turned a blind eye to many who are in
     need. With the Syndicate's help, the wealthiest prosper, but for the
     nation's poor, life has gotten rather tough. Funding for social
     programs has dwindled to barely a trickle and for the working poor,
     destitution is an ever present threat. More significantly, those who
     would be institutionalized in the past have been "mainstreamed" into
     general society. Unfortunately, many of them, not being able to cope,
     have "dropped out." It turns out that not a few of these casualties of
     society are Awakened. Being Orphans, they have little understanding of
     what they are or even that they are different. In the past, those who
     were overwhelmed by Quiet were institutionalized. Others, believing
     themselves mad voluntarily sought insulations in the Asylums. Now,
     however, as their Sleeping fellows are turned out, so are they.

     Most of us avoid the streets. If we are feeling charitable, we may help
     those in need. Others of us will use an inner city chantry as a refuge.
     But how many of us truly live among them? I have found the underbelly
     of the city to be a bleak sea of grey bereft of hope. It is a thriving,
     unforgiving wilderness, and one that has become the home to many who
     have nowhere else to go. It is a place for our Acolytes to fight the
     battle for Ascension, but not ourselves personally! It is also, as I
     have been startled to learn, a place, though by no means a haven, for
     many Orphans. There they remain hidden, relatively free to define a
     reality that they can live with. These street mages are known by many
     names, especially among other Orphans. I have heard them called Garbage
     Wizards, Gutter Seers, Uberbums, and a host of other, less savory
     appellations, but the one I prefer to use is simply "The Homeless." It
     is a fitting title, for it describes them truly in every sense.

     It is not true that the Homeless live on the street because they want
     to. Many desperately want to return to their families and friends, but
     find that they can't really exist anywhere else. They are not able to
     live by the rules that everyone else, even we, accept without thought.
     On the other hand, their hold on the real world is too strong for them
     to fall away into the fantasy realms of the Marauders. Even the
     Nephandi have no place for the Homeless, as few have the faith or drive
     to be easily tempted by the Dark Ones' promises. They are individuals
     first, living perpetually on the edge of Quiet and thus in their own
     skewed vision of reality.

     Nearly all of the Homeless I spoke to regard the Traditions with a
     mixture of pity and envy. Sadly, they believe we have lost the war for
     reality and don't understand why we keep trying. One of them, who
     looked no different than every other bag lady on the street said to me,
     "If you are so dissatisfied with the way things are, then why haven't
     you joined with the Marauders or the Nephandi?" On the other hand, I
     also sensed they held a grudging respect for our convictions and wish
     they could meld into society as well as we do.

     They have little contact with the Technocracy, so at least on that
     point, they are fortunate. I have heard rumors, though, of Progenitors
     who have tried to use them as guinea pigs for their experiments.
     Likewise, the Nephandi rarely bother with them, perhaps because neither
     the Dark Ones nor the Homeless have much to offer one another. The
     Homeless all have a strong, if skewed, connection to this realm, or
     they would have joined the Marauders long ago. They are largely
     mystified by the Chaos Mages. What separates them from other Orphans is
     their inability to fit in, even among the various cliques and crafts.
     If you ask a Homeless what his affiliations are, he will usually
     classify himself as an independent Orphan. Other Orphans, however, are
     quick to tell you that they have nothing in common with the "Uberbums."

     The Homeless are not so much of a clique as they are a category. They
     tend to congregate around any nodes that exist, often sharing the
     Places of Power with other supernatural creatures. Though some will
     attempt to horde a Node or try to keep its location hidden, the meager
     resources and high demand make this difficult. This is not to say that
     they have forgotten ancient rivalries, but they have found that the
     need to survive often dictates they share their resources, no matter
     how much they would like to keep them all to themselves. As a result,
     the Homeless have managed to foster a loose network both among
     themselves and with Sleepers and other supernaturals. They know a
     surprising amount of lore, perhaps because of their forced contact with
     the Nosferatu, Bone Gnawers and Sluagh. They seem to have a knack for
     going unnoticed, probably because we do not wish to see them, even when
     they reek of the sewers and look worse. They tend to find
     out...things...and trade their knowledge for food, tass, shelter or
     other necessities. Even though they do know a great deal, they make a
     point not to get involved or take sides. Perhaps they are too aware of
     the consequences if they did.

     Most tend to use their powers to make their lives more bearable. They
     find it more difficult to deal with static reality than even we do and
     spend much of their time doing their best to avoid it. At the same
     time, they find the often capricious nature of the spirit world
     disconcerting. They seek security, but only on their terms and usually
     find it is not something that anyone else can give them. This is not to
     say that they are totally isolated, but their relationship with others
     are not of the kind that allow them to interact the rest of society
     very well. They disconcert Sleepers, even many of those who share their
     streets. Some retreat into themselves, often welcoming Quiet. Others
     reject Sleepers altogether and use their talents to make a place for
     themselves among the other supernatural beings.

     The Homeless have much in common with the Nosferatu; both are outcasts,
     though for different reasons. They will sometimes offer their magickal
     services in return for protection and a place within the Nosferatu's
     warrens. The close knit nature of the Nosferatu, however, sometimes
     leaves the Homeless feeling more alone than ever. The Nosferatu usually
     treat them with respect and even those aligned with the Sabbat have
     been known to accept them. However, these deeply practical and brutally
     sane kindred really don't have the same world view as the Homeless. The
     Nosferatu have no choice but to stay on the fringes and often take
     perverse pride in this fact. They often look upon the Homeless as
     loafers or hopeless nutcases; it is certainly the Nosferatu who coined
     the term "Uberbum."

     Their relationship with the Bone Gnawers is a bit more complex. They
     often find themselves competing with one another for access to nodes.
     When other garou are involved, this usually leads to conflict but if
     the caern is used only by Gnawers, the two groups often are willing to
     share, sometimes with Sluagh and even wraiths, if they can agree to how
     the node will be used. Bone Gnawers often regard Homeless as being part
     of their Protectorate, which pleases some, but annoys others.

     The mysterious Sluagh keep to themlselves more than even the Nosferatu.
     However, some Homeless, especially those with an Affinity for the Fae,
     will sometimes be able to ally with the Underfolk. In many ways, the
     Sluagh and the Homeless have a great deal in common. Despite their
     situation, the Homeless are not consumed by banality and have a
     somewhat faerie-like mindset. (Do not ask me to explain what I mean by
     that!) The warrens controlled by the Sluagh are often more attractive
     homes than those of the Nosferatu simply because of the Changeling's
     knack for not being noticed even when in plain sight. Nevertheless,
     many of the same problems the Homeless have with Nosferatu surface with
     the equally fraternal Sluagh.

     The Homeless even have a fair amount of truck with the Restless Dead.
     The inner city has more than its share of Nihils -- often deserted
     tenements that the Homeless make their homes in. The Homeless say they
     understand the Wraiths' loss and can even identify with their pain over
     their separation from their loved ones.

     The Homeless also have contacts with some of the less savory denizens
     of the city. They are aware of the reclusive clan of vampires known as
     the Giovanni and know what these Necromancers do when they aren't
     initiating corporate takeovers. Fortunately, they stay as far away as
     possible from the catacombs underneath their mansions and towers.

     More worrisome is their relationship with the Black Spiral Dancers.
     These mad garou frighten most Homeless and they avoid them whenever
     possible. They know to avoid the deepest levels of the undercity.
     Nevertheless, a few of the more insane Homeless have been seen
     cavorting with the Black Spirals in their pits. I suspect that is why
     many of them have such intimate knowledge of the Nephandi...

     The Homeless have also described a newcomer to the sewers and tunnels;
     they call them Freakfeet and describe them as an infestation that began
     only a few years ago. Like most of the street denizens, the Homeless
     see these wretched fomori as pests at best and dangerous territory
     grabbers at worse. The few times Nosferatu, Bone Gnawer, Sluagh,
     Giovanni and Homeless have come together were usually to exterminate
     these fast breeding monsters. However, some Homeless whisper about a
     Master of Life who has taken control of a pack of these beasties and
     has even been using her own body as an incubator for them. It is not a
     thought that I wish to dwell on.

Concepts

     Despite sharing the same name, Awakened Homeless are often very
     different from their Sleeper counterparts. They usually do not end up
     on the streets simply because they are incapable of making enough money
     to pay the rent. Instead, they are there because they can find no place
     that will accept them or that they can accept. They come from all walks
     of life; they often have family and friends, but something about
     Awakening shattered their personalities. A Homeless might look like a
     bag lady, wino, street mime or other performer, a prostitute (she'll
     never have a pimp though), street urchin, an urban hermit (think
     Sebastian from Blade Runner), an addict, a madman or any of the other
     skid row stereotype you can think of. However, appearances are
     deceiving, even among Sleeper street people; for the Homeless, this is
     even more apparent. While Gunther Kohl may portray them as uniformly
     hopeless and disconnected, remember that he represents the point of
     view of an outsider. The Homeless are people with problems yes, but
     they are every bit as complex as anyone else. In fact, with their
     expanded view of reality, they are even more so.

Magick

     Most Homeless are Orphans, though fallen Tradition mages and even the
     occasional technomancer can be counted among their ranks. Those who use
     them choose from a broad range of foci. There are many disciples of
     Life among them; Entropy and Mind are also popular.

Character Creation

     Common backgrounds are Arcane, Familiar, Sanctum and Dream. Streetwise,
     Alertness, Stealth, Blatancy ("Ah, it's just a bum."), Scrounging, Area
     Knowledge and various Lores are common abilities. Merits include Common
     Sense, Supernatural Companion, Faerie Affinity, and Spirit Magnet.
     Flaws often possessed are Dark Secret, Compulsion, Addiction,
     Nightmares, Shy, Flashbacks, Confused, Spirit Magnet, Strangeness and
     Echoes.

