From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Thu Mar 11 14:29:35 1996
Status: RO
X-Status: A
Received: from comp.uark.edu (sbabb@comp.uark.edu [130.184.253.197])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id OAA19208 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Mon, 11 Mar 1996 14:29:27 +0100
Received: (from sbabb@localhost) by comp.uark.edu (8.7.1/8.7.1) id HAA17004; Mon, 11 Mar 1996 07:29:23 -0600 (CST)
Date: Mon, 11 Mar 1996 07:29:23 -0600 (CST)
From: "D.J." <sbabb@comp.uark.edu>
To: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
Subject: Tell me what you think (pt 2) (fwd)
Message-ID: <Pine.SOL.3.91.960311072645.11697B-100000@comp.uark.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII


	This is admittedly unbalanced when regarding the rest of the WoD 
and ups the power level of mages quite a bit (which is how my players and I 
like it).  All rules apply to mages and NPCs alike tho', so it does keep 
some balance going.

RULES MODIFICATIONS FOR MAGE: THE ASCENSION

by:  D.J. Babb

ROLLS OF 10:  Whenever a player rolls a 10 on a die, he gets to re-roll the 
die.  If a 1 is rolled on any re-roll, it does not count against previous 
rolls (it's not a botch).  Specialties should still be chosen in order to 
further define the character, and chosen during character creation, but they 
have no gaming effect.

COMBAT AND DAMAGE:  In the standard rolls, whenever a target is hit a number 
of dice are rolled to see if the attack does damage (a Damage Roll) and then a
number of Stamina dice are rolled to see if the target resists (a Soak Roll). 
In my games, Damage Rolls are ignored.  The target takes full damage 
automatically, and then rolls to Soak as usual.  This makes fire combat HIGHLY
dangerous (as any successes after the first to hit are added to the damage 
total), and increases the threat of combat in general.
	Also, any Vulgar magicks designed to harm another (such as a Ball of 
Abysmal Flame) will automatically do aggravated damage.  This does not apply 
to coincidental magicks however (but a coincidental gas explosion would still 
burn a vampire of course).

ORPHANS:  Orphans, including Hollow Ones, have two choices when dealing with 
foci.  They may either select to be foci-using, or foci-free.  Those Orphans 
who select to use foci must select a Specialty Sphere (for which they pay the 
same price as other mages to increase (Sphere rating X 7)), and five dots to 
spend on other spheres.  They must select a foci for every sphere (just as 
other mages do), and may take unique foci as well.
	Foci-less Orphans do not need to use foci, but also have no specialty 
Sphere, and gain no benefits from using foci.  They pay full price for any 
Sphere increases (Sphere rating X 8).

TECHNOMANCERS:  Technomancers, such as Virtual Adepts and Progenitors, are not
limited by the stated rules regarding Arete and foci.  For every dot of Arete 
after the first, the Technomancer loses the need for one of his foci just as 
other mages.

BACKGROUNDS:  Allies-  For every point spent, the character may take a 
Acolyte.  For every two points spent the character may take a Consor in place 
of two Acolytes.  For every extra point spent, the Acolytes or Consors have 5 
more freebie points (total.  Each individual does NOT get the 5 points).  For 
instance, a mage with four dots in Allies may have two Acolytes and one 
Consor.  See "Ascension's Right Hand" for more details.
	Avatar-  At least one dot of backgrounds must be spent in Avatar.  I 
do this partially to reflect the elevated state of a Mage's Avatar, partially 
for game mechanics.
	Chantry-  Each dot of Chantry purchased gives the mage 3 points to 
develop his Chantry.  I allow this to stimulate players to develop Chantries 
(and related sites).
	Dream-  Dream can be "split up", so that a mage with 3 dots of dream 
could spend one on Medicine and two on Vampire Lore.  The entire pool does not
have to be spent on one ability.  Also, the Dream pool may be added to pools 
the character already has.
	Familiar Spirit-  Originally a Background in "Werewolf: Player's 
Guide", some mages may take such a spirit as a follower.  While Dreamspeakers 
are the most likely candidates, even the occasional Technocracy mage may have 
such a spirit.  This background is not to be confused with Familiar or Allies 
(but is similar to both).
	Fetish-  Mages may also take Fetishes in place of/addition to 
Talismans.  See "Talismans" and "Fetish Construction" below.
	Nodes-  Each dot gives the mage 5 points of Quintessence per week, 
total.  Also, a mage may divide the points between two or more Nodes, but this
involves Nodes being in scattered areas and making them harder to watch over. 
Also, mages may not meditate at a Node for additional Quintessence, but may 
still use meditation to access the pool available (reducing the weekly 
amount).  Quintessence from a Node can be stored, but will decay rapidly.  The
mage removes a certain amount, and for each hour of storage the amount 
decreases by one point.  Of course, Talismans exist with the sole function of 
storing Quintessence for a longer amount of time.
	Past Life-  Originally a Background in "Werewolf: the Apocalypse", 
only certain traditions and mages may take this background (Euthanatos, 
Akashic Brothers, and Dreamspeakers particularly, but others as well).  For 
each dot the character spends he gets to develop a past life with its own 
abilities and personality (personalities should not accept the character 100%,
and are built with 13/9/5 abilities just as a beginning mage).  Skills are 
limited to the time period of the ancestor spirit (no ancient Egyptian priests
with Firearms for instance).  Otherwise, no changes from the Werewolf 
background.
	Talismans-  See "Talismans", below.
	Totem-  Originally a Background in "Werewolf: the Apocalypse", some 
mages (such as Dreamspeakers and occasionally Order of Hermes mages) may ally 
themselves to a "totem" spirit in exchange for aid.  Typically, an entire 
cabal will donate of themselves to the spirit, in exchange for its aid.  While
the original Werewolf background implies an animalistic totem, the spirit 
could be of any kind (perhaps a cabal of Virtual Adepts working with an 
Artificial Intelligence they've constructed in the Digital Web).  Increases to
the "totem's" power are up to the Storyteller to decide, however, magick can 
not be used to directly empower the "totem" (additional dots in the background
may be bought with 3 experience points per dot, to reflect devotion and 
attention on the part of the mage (which should be role-played out)).  
Otherwise, there are no changes from the Werewolf background.

TALISMANS-  By putting background dots in Talisman, the mage is granted a 
magical item that can be used by any mage for a limited number of effects.  By
putting background points into Fetish, the mage is granted a magical item with
free will that has more power than a Talisman, but also has a free will and 
personality of its own.
	Both Fetishes and Talismans have an Arete rating, and all effects used
by the item are made using the item's Arete.  Also, both have Quintessence 
pools which may be used to reduce the difficulty of rolls made by the mage 
(whether the effect is from the Talisman or an effect by the mage), but each 
use of the Fetish or Talisman costs a point of Quintessence from the item and 
once the item is drained of Quintessence, it may no longer be used until 
recharged (typically, a Prime 3 effect requiring a source of Quintessence to 
recharge from).
	The Arete of a Talisman is equal to [number of dots spent on Talisman 
X 2], Quintessence is equal to [Arete X 5], and gives a number of Sphere 
Levels to create effects with [1 dot gives 1 level, 2 dots give 3, 3 dots give
6, 4 dots give 10, 5 dots give 15 levels].  Also, a Talisman is limited to 
effects equal to, or below, the rating of the Talisman.  A Talisman may be 
given more Sphere Levels by decreasing Arete (and also the Quintessence), with
each dot of Arete dropped giving 2 more levels.  Also, a Talisman may be 
infused with a particular ability, with every Sphere Level lost giving two 
dots in a single ability, or one dot each in a pair of abilities.
	For instance, a mage spends 3 dots on Talisman.  This automatically 
gives him a Talisman with Arete- 6, Quintessence- 30, and 6 dots to spend on 
Sphere Levels (however, since the Talisman is rated at 3, no effect may be 
higher than 3).  The mage chooses to lower the Arete to 5, and this gives him 
a total of 8 Sphere Levels.  He puts 3 levels into a Correspondence effect (it
teleports him to Stonehenge, from anywhere in the world), and 3 in Forces and 
the last 2 in Prime (he can create moderate sized Fireballs).  All rolls to 
use magic are made by the mage, rolling the Talisman's Arete (of 5).  Any 
Paradox incurred is given to the Mage.
	While Talismans are powerful and hard to construct, Fetishes are even 
greater and more demanding (literally!).  The Arete of a Fetish is equal to 
[number of dots spent on Fetish X 2 +1 (maximum of 10)], Quintessence is equal
to [Arete X 5], and gives an increased number of Sphere Levels to create 
effects with [1 dot gives 2 levels, 2 dots give 5, 3 dots give 9, 4 dots give 
14, 5 dots give 20 levels].  Like a Talisman, a Fetish is limited to effects 
equal to, or below, the rating of the Fetish.  A Fetish may not be given more 
Sphere Levels by decreasing Arete.  But, a Fetish may be infused with a 
particular ability, with every Sphere Level lost giving two dots in a single 
ability, or one dot each in a pair of abilities.
	For instance, a player spends 4 dots in Fetish.  This gives him a 
Fetish with an Arete- 9, Quintessence- 45, and 14 dots for Sphere Levels.  He 
decides he wants a Fetish with the ability to drive people insane (a Mind 4 
effect), destroy them with cancer (an Entropy 4 effect), create swarms of 
flies (a Life 3, Prime 2 effect), and sense demons (Spirit 1).  All rolls are 
made using the Fetish's Arete, IF the Fetish allows itself to be used.  Any 
Paradox incurred is given to the Mage.
	While Fetishes are more powerful than Talismans, they do have their 
costs.  Also, any Fetishes a player takes during character creation are 
automatically useable by the mage (but not necessarily friendly).  See "Fetish
Construction" below.

FETISH CONSTRUCTION:  The steps for Fetish creation for mages are much like 
Fetish construction for Garou (as presented in "Werewolf: Storytellers 
Handbook").  However, the Fetish created by a mage is usually much more 
powerful than the Fetish created by a Garou, as the Garou Fetish is limited by
the power of the spirit it contains, while the mage's Fetish is powered by the
spirit and the mage as well.
	Mages must plan what kind of Spirit is needed for the Fetish (usually 
a Wits+Spirit Lore roll, with a difficulty of 7.  Each additional success 
reduces the difficulty of the preparation by 1).
	Then  the mage must prepare the materials for the Fetish 
(Intelligence+Spirit Lore, Occult, Enigmas, or any other Ability the 
Storyteller deems appropriate.  Difficulty is equal to [desired Fetish rating 
+ 3], with each additional success reducing the difficulty of the questing by 
1).
	Then the mage quests for the spirit itself (the mage usually summons 
it to him using Spirit 2 or 3, but some mages have quested in the umbra using 
Perception+Spirit Lore (difficulty equal to [Fetish rating +3])).
	Next the mage negotiates with the spirit, trying to convince it to aid
him and join in a Fetish.  Mages may use Mind/Spirit magicks to dominate and 
threaten, impassioned speeches, bribes and geasa, or any of a number of other 
means.  Once the Spirit accepts (see the chart on page 127 of "Werewolf: 
Storytellers Handbook"), the mage must finally seal the spirit within the 
Fetish (a Spirit 4 effect).
	Once crafted, the Fetish has an Arete equal to the [spirit's 
(Willpower+Rage+Gnosis)/3 rounded down to the lowest full number].  The 
spirit's current Power is converted to Quintessence, and it may hold a total 
of Quintessence equal to [Arete X 5] (spirits tend to favor those who do not 
rely to heavily on their Quintessence and keep them regularly fed).  Also, 
after creation the mage may be expected to do further favors for the Fetish to
keep it happy.
	The powers of the Fetish are limited to the nature of the Spirit it 
contains, and the power of the mage.  A powerful ice elemental spirit has the 
power to create snow storms, but not shoot shards of ice (even though such 
effects are conceptually within the spirit's power); a mage crafts a Fetish 
and gives the Fetish the ability to create snow storms as well as ice shards 
(both are powered by the spirit within).  Even though ice shards aren't one of
the spirit's powers, it fits the spirit's "paradigm".  Storytellers should be 
generous, but not allow themselves to bullied, when determining what a spirit 
can and can not empower within a Fetish.
	Also, even though the term "spirit" is used above (along with a 
shamanistic mindset), the rules are idnetical for Technomancers and 
others.  The "flavor" of the proceedings would be quite different however.

ABILITIES:  A mage may use any Talent he does not possess (except for 
Awareness) by rolling at base Attribute level.  A mage may also use any skill 
he does not possess (except Do) by rolling at Attribute level with a 
difficulty increase of one.  A mage may not normally attempt to use a 
Knowledge he does not possess (however, Dream and Past Life backgrounds, and 
some magicks, allow a mage to overcome this).

BLATANCY:  Blatancy is the skill used by mages to work their more vulgar 
magicks in front of observers, making them coincidental.  Not only should the 
use of this (almost mystical) ability be explained, but it should also be 
properly role-played.

DO:  The psuedo-magickal ability known as Do is limited to Akashic Brotherhood
mages only.  It is their form of Blatancy, and as such they may not also take 
dots in Blatancy.  Other mages may not take Do, but may take Blatancy as 
normal.  Do combines meditation as well as martial arts, and so can be used 
for a variety of coincidences.
	Do users also have slightly different modifications to Energy Source 
bonuses (see "Book of Shadows", page 123) due to the rules listed above.  
Internal users of Do add an additional two dice to hit targets, while External
users add two additional dice to Soak rolls.  However, Do costs twice the 
normal price of experience to increase.

ARETE:  Beginning characters may not start with more than 4 dots of Arete.

		Stuff still to do.....

SPECIFIC SPHERE MODIFICATIONS: Life 2-4 (Simple Patterns are everything 
up to (ie. not including) monkeys and dolphins and humans.  Bigger, more 
complex the critter, harder the rote).  Time 3 (if you speed up you CAN cast 
other spells, but I may increase the difficulty a bit).

TECHNOCRACY CHANGES: Clear things up a bit on the various groups and 
their spheres.

ROTE MASTERY: Spend experince/study points to master a spell, making it 
easier.


	

