X-Topic-No: 7
Date: Fri, 27 Jan 95 22:04:42 PST
From: John Sullivan <pp001983@interramp.com>
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Subject: Hanging Spells, 1 of 2 (long)
Message-ID: <Chameleon.4.01.1.950127235345.pp001983@>

Magic Made Simple:  Hanging Spells
by John Sullivan


The art of hanging spells is an intermediary step on the road to the creation 
of true talismans.  It provides a simpler way of setting a spell in a 
particular object or place and having it take effect at some time other than 
the time it is cast.

When a mage hangs a spell she manipulates the tapestry, impressing on it a 
pattern which encodes a process instead of matter or energy.  Unlike a 
talisman, this is not a dynamic pattern.  Instead of carrying an ongoing 
quintessence flow like a living object, a hung spell contains stable 
quintessence as does matter.  Rather than making something capable of casting 
magic itself, a mage who hangs a spell is doing something more akin to making 
an impression of an object in wax.

Hanging spells are fully described at the time of their creation, but remain 
dormant until certain triggering events take place.  At this time the spell 
goes off, just as it was originally cast.  The spell's pattern is consumed in 
this act and it ceases to exist.  All hung spells take effect one time only 
and are then gone forever. 

Examples of use:
The ward is the best-known and most common example of a hung spell.  These 
spells protect some object or place, like a doorway.  A ward placed on the 
doorway of a mage's sanctum might remain inert until someone tried to force 
entry into the sanctum.  At this time the spell would activate and most 
likely deliver a warning to the mage or take some offensive action against 
the intruder.  The ward would be destroyed in the process and would have to 
be re-enchanted if the door were to remain protected.  Many chantries prefer 
talisman-based wards for protecting their most precious secrets, since 
talismans remain intact after being triggered.  For more basic uses, however, 
many wards are designed as simple hanging spells.

The potions of historical legend are another example of hung spells.  A spell 
enchanted into a potion can be given to anyone, even a sleeper, and serves as 
a single-use magical item.  Well known historical examples include life 
effects used in "healing potions" or "love potions" that use mind effects to 
induce emotional states in the drinker.  A potion provides more control over 
magic that is to take place outside a mage's presence.  If a mage needed to 
send a sleeper to perform a dangerous task, she might want to cast some 
useful spell on him to ensure the job is successfully done.  If this spell 
has a duration she can simply cast it and send him on his way.  On the other 
hand, it would be pointless to try and heal the person before he has been 
hurt.  If a need for healing is expected, the mage must either accompany him 
to cast the spell, or else give him some means of doing so himself when the 
need arises.  A potion provides this flexibility and is simple for untrained 
sleepers to use.  Drinking the potion provides an unambiguous triggering 
event and impresses the spell's expendable nature on users who do not 
understand magic.  At the same time, since it works once and then is gone, it 
is less likely than a talisman to be abused by the ignorant.  Note that the 
potion itself provides only a physical carrier for the spell.  The same spell 
could be placed in any other object, or even on the target himself.  Herbal 
potions are so ingrained in the mass consciousness mostly because they fit 
well into the paradigm of the Verbena, who frequently used them to help 
sleepers in their communities.

Requirements:
In order to hang spells, a mage must have Prime 3, as well as the sphere 
ratings necessary to cast the spell being hung.  Other spheres may be 
necessary, usually at level one, depending on the complexity of the spell's 
triggering conditions.  Quintessence and Willpower must be expended as part 
of the hanging process.

The Process:
To hang a spell, the mage first selects an object or place into which the 
spell will be woven.  If possible, mages will use a physical object as an 
anchoring pattern for their prime patterns since this is easier than building 
a pattern without such an anchor.  If necessary, a spell can be attached to 
an empty location in space at +1 to the casting difficulty.

The mage then spends approximately half an hour preparing the pattern.  This 
involves various level 1 and level 3 prime magics that detect and clear away 
any underlying imperfections in the tapestry that might interfere with the 
prime pattern to be created.  No roll is necessary for this process, but it 
cannot be rushed or the spell will fail.

Once this process is complete, the mage is ready to actually hang the spell. 
 The mage casts the spell conjunctionally with Prime 3.  The minimum 
difficulty is therefore six.  The mage must expend a point of willpower to 
impress his will this strongly upon the tapestry, and supply one point of 
quintessence to maintain the pattern.  The mage may use willpower and 
quintessence to assist in the casting as usual.  The required points do not 
count against the normal limits since they are being used for a different 
purpose than actually casting the effect.  Assuming the spell is successfully 
cast, the pattern will be impressed and the spell will be effectively stored. 
 When its triggering conditions are met it will go off exactly as the mage 
cast it.  No roll is necessary when the spell goes off.  It gets the number 
of successes the mage rolled when creating it.  If the effect is vulgar, the 
paradox is dealt with at the time of casting.  Always check for paradox as if 
"vulgar with sleeper witnesses" conditions were in effect.

Example:  Arturo (Arete 5, Prime 3, Forces 4) protects his car with a hung 
spell that fires a forces 3 electrical shock effect at anyone who tries to 
open the driver's side door without making the subtle hand gesture Arturo 
habitually makes.  This is a vulgar effect so, after half an hour spent 
clearing away any background magical influences from his car, Arturo spends a 
willpower and a quintessence, then rolls four dice with a difficulty of six. 
 He gets three successes so the spell is stored in the pattern as a three 
success spell.  Had he chosen to do so, Arturo could have spent quintessence 
to lower the difficulty below 6 and could have spent another willpower to get 
a fourth success.  When a neighborhood low-life tries to steal the car the 
spell goes off and does three successes worth of damage to the would-be 
thief.  Forces 3 does two health levels of damage per success, so the spell 
will do six health-levels of damage.  Arturo doesn't have to check for 
paradox because he did so when creating the spell.  If the thief is willing, 
and able, to try again the door is now unprotected.

Triggering Conditions:
A hung spell is a pattern, and it is triggered by its interaction with other 
patterns.  The triggering conditions must be chosen before the spell is cast, 
and will have a major impact on the shape of the pattern.  Triggering 
conditions must be specific, and must take place within line of sight of the 
spell.  Unless special abilities are designed into the spell, triggering 
conditions must be detectable by normal human senses.  A ward on a desk 
drawer could be triggered by anyone trying to open the drawer, by someone who 
doesn't first say a password, by a red haired woman, or by anyone carrying a 
gun.  Note that the normal human senses requirement doesn't require that the 
condition be something an average bystander would necessarily be aware of.  
The anyone carrying a gun trigger would work even if the gun were concealed 
under a coat.

Without magical modifications, however, a hung spell could not distinguish 
between specific individuals (Trigger if: my enemy, Jeremy of the Dark 
Reavers Cabal, attempts to open the drawer), take into account a target's 
state of mind (Trigger if: anyone approaches with hostile intent, but ignore 
them if they are friendly) or detect other things that are intangible to 
normal senses (Trigger if: the object containing the spell comes into contact 
with something carrying an electrical current).  These kinds of triggers are 
possible, but require improving the spell's sensory apparatus by stacking 
effects of other spheres into the spell at the time it is cast.  The examples 
above would require Life 1, Mind 2 and Forces 1 respectively.  The first 
example would also require the mage to have successfully scanned Jeremy's 
pattern prior to casting in order to build the proper identifying factors 
into the spell.

The maximum number of different triggering conditions that can be placed on a 
hung spell is equal to the caster's arete.  When several mages cooperate to 
hang a spell, this limit is the highest single arete among the group, not the 
sum of all the casters.  If multiple conditions are used they can be chained 
together with various logical operators.  For example "Trigger if: anyone not 
wearing the sigil of my cabal opens this book, or if anyone at all attempts 
to remove it from this room"  would let your friends read your book but not 
take it away with them and would set off the spell immediately if someone 
else tampered with the book.  

Detection and Analysis:
A hung spell is a prime pattern containing stored quintessence.  Thus it can 
be sensed and studied by a capable mage.  Characters with the Awareness 
ability will be able to sense a nearby hung spell much as they would any 
other magical effect.  A simple Prime 1 effect will reveal the pattern 
itself.  Once a mage discovers a hung spell, he will probably want to learn 
what it does and how it is triggered.  If he has Prime 1, a mage can study 
the pattern and possibly learn how it was constructed.  If the mage has the 
sphere ratings necessary to cast the spell himself, an Int+Occult roll will 
reveal information about it.  Storyteller discretion is required here.  A 
single success will let the mage figure out what the spell does when 
triggered, while more successes might reveal how powerful it is (i.e. how 
many successes it has), what the triggering conditions are, and perhaps even 
suggest ways of getting around them.

If the mage is not capable of casting the spell himself, analyzing it becomes 
more difficult.  If the mage is rated in the spheres involved, but not highly 
enough to actually cast the spell, he might be able to figure out that the 
pattern is a hung life and forces spell, but would not understand just what 
its effects would be.  If he is totally ignorant of one of the spheres 
involved, there is very little that can be learned.  A large number of 
successes might give some information about triggering conditions, but what 
happens once the trigger is set off will remain a mystery.

Destroying a hung spell:
A hung spell's pattern can be unraveled and the spell removed using Prime 3. 
 Like anti-magic, this is always coincidental, so you roll your arete against 
the same difficulty as that of casting the hung spell.  To successfully 
unravel the spell, you must get enough successes on this roll to equal the 
original caster's arete.  If you fail, the spell is unaffected.  On a botch, 
the spell is immediately triggered.  You can take down your own hung spells 
with very little chance of failure, since you presumably know just how you 
built the spell in the first place.  Make the same arete roll to see if you 
botch, but otherwise you successfully remove the spell even if you don't roll 
any successes.

Tampering with someone else's hung spells can be dangerous.  While simply 
studying a pattern with Prime 1 is a passive activity and a spell cannot be 
directly triggered by it, actively trying to destroy the spell with Prime 3 
is detectable and may well be one of the spell's triggering conditions.  If 
this is true, you will get only one chance to take the spell down safely.  
Failing will leave the spell free to be triggered and it will go off.  The 
spell will be destroyed, but not quite in the way you had hoped.  Taking down 
a hung spell can be done in concert by a group of mages with Prime 3.  This 
is generally a good idea if you have reason to suspect that the spell 
contains such a tampering switch, or was made by someone with a higher arete 
than your own.

Overlapping Spells:
It is never possible to put more than one hung spell on a given object or 
location.  The patterns are too unwieldy to operate without interfering with 
one another.  Simply placing too many hung spells in close proximity can 
cause difficulties as the patterns begin interacting with each other, leading 
to unpredictable results.  If a single person, or a group in a confined space 
like a car, tries to carry more than 3 to 5 hung spells at a time, their 
patterns will begin to merge and mutate.  As a result of this process spells 
may trigger prematurely or have their triggering conditions changed.  When 
spells do go off, their effects may be a bizarre mix of the effects of other 
spells they have been subjected to.  In a worst case scenario all the 
patterns may simply collapse, releasing their stored quintessence in the 
equivalent of a primally reinforced blast that does aggravated damage to 
everyone nearby.  There is no way to predict just what sort of alterations 
will take place when patterns begin to interact, or how many patterns can be 
in a given area without causing problems.



Advice for Players

The thing to concentrate on when designing a hung spell is the triggering 
conditions since this is the easiest way for the spell to not do what you 
want it to do.  A hung spell is a purely mechanical contraption and by no 
means intelligent.  It will literally interpret the conditions it is given 
and the subtleties of a situation will be completely lost on it.

A spell with conditions that don't accurately define the caster's intention 
is often worse than no spell at all.  Arturo's car protector is a 
particularly bad example.  It will give him trouble whenever he goes 
someplace with valet parking or needs to have someone else drive, while not 
even adequately protecting the car from theft.

If you can install multiple conditions in a spell it is generally best to 
avoid trying to detect several completely different things.  Instead try to 
overlap your conditions to better cover a single circumstance.  Consider 
"Trigger if: this door is opened by anyone other than me, or if I open it 
without first touching this spot on the doorjamb."  While the first condition 
would provide basic protection against burglars, the second condition makes 
the spell smart enough to catch special circumstances that would slip past 
the first.  The spell would now be triggered if another mage used a Life 
effect to try and make his pattern look like yours, but didn't know he needed 
to touch the doorjamb.  It would also give you a way to trigger the spell 
yourself if needed - for instance if an enemy with a gun on you decides to 
get clever and says "No, you open it."  (Presumably the spell will warn your 
friends, or deliver some kind of area effect that can affect the gunman and 
won't seriously harm you.)

Remember that there is a bit of vagueness built into spell triggers and you 
can make this worse by trying to be to inclusive or asking the spell to make 
subjective judgments.  Telling a spell to trigger if it sees a short person 
or a someone with brown hair is asking for trouble.  The Storyteller, who has 
to interpret the spell, will ask "shorter than what?" and may make a snap 
judgment that is not what you wanted at all.  The brown hair trigger might 
work in some circumstances, but at the edges where brown shades into blonde 
or into black you will have problems.  And of course if the target has dyed 
his hair another color the spell will ignore him completely.  Even more 
subjective things like triggering if someone is wearing an ugly shirt 
wouldn't be possible at all.  (Granted, these are pretty silly examples, but 
the principle is important.  Be as precise as possible when designing 
triggering conditions and your spells are less likely to betray you in a 
crisis.)

Another reason to take care in setting triggering conditions is the ease with 
which a spell can be fooled, especially by someone who knows what the spell's 
triggering conditions are.  Having a spell trigger when it detects someone 
not wearing the sigil of your cabal works unless someone manages to get their 
hands on a sigil.  It is especially easy for a mage to magically alter the 
situation to give a spell what it wants to see.  If a spell triggers if 
someone approaches with hostile intent, it would take only a trivial Mind 1 
effect to build an "overlay" personality that beams sweetness and light at 
the spell.  Thus, while they are generally effective against sleepers, it can 
be risky to rely solely on hung spells to protect yourself from other mages.


Advice for Storytellers

Hung spells are intended to fill a fairly significant gap left unfilled by 
Mage, provide players with a convenient way of extending their power beyond 
their immediate presence, and give you another source of tricks and puzzles 
with which to enrich your game.  They are not intended to help munchkin 
players abuse the system.  Consider, for example a player who decides that 
casting spells in a crisis situation is too risky since they might fail, or 
even botch.  However if he casts a hung spell on some object, he will know 
immediately if it has failed and can then discard it and start over.  In this 
way the player might try to cast five copies of the two or three spells he 
usually casts, make sure they all have the maximal number of successes, and 
then carry them on pebbles in his pocket he can throw at someone when they 
are needed.

Hopefully your players are above this sort of thing, but even so some 
guidelines like the proximity rule are helpful.  Remember that hung spells 
are fairly awkward constructions, especially compared to talismans.  They are 
magically less efficient and their triggering conditions are connections of 
pattern linkages that can only crudely attempt to logically model the 
complexities of the real world.  Think of them as simple computer programs 
without the complexity to handle things like error trapping.  If things go 
just right, they work.  However it isn't too hard to bring them crashing 
down.

The easiest way to handle the bookkeeping of hung spells is to write up a 
description at the time the spell is cast.  An index card for each spell 
works well.  This card should tell you where the spell is, the sphere ratings 
used, a quick description of what it does, the caster's arete and the number 
of successes rolled.  The card should also contain the spell's triggering 
conditions. 

Have the player write down triggering conditions in the form of a sentence.  
For example "Trigger if: I am rendered unconscious by damage." or "Trigger 
if: this door is opened by anyone other than me, or if I open it without 
first touching this spot on the doorjamb."

If you need to know how "clever" or generally how well constructed a spell 
is, use the caster's arete.  For example, if a mage used Life magic to make 
himself look like someone a spell was keyed to ignore, he would have to roll 
a number of successes on the Life effect at least equal to the original 
caster's arete in order to fool the spell.  Otherwise, he might look to the 
naked eye like the person in question, but the underlying pattern would not 
be exact enough to match the spell's complex criteria.


Slider Controls

Before posting to the wider audience, these rules were sent to two members of 
the Mage-L mailing list to be checked for inconsistencies and generally 
critiqued for usefulness and playability.  My acknowledgment and gratitude go 
to Anders Sandberg and Paul Strack for their assistance in this area.  With 
the exception of a potentially crippling loophole discovered by Anders (and 
since plugged in the main section), their suggestions distilled down to 
differences in campaigning and storytelling style.  Because of the vague 
nature of the rules, Mage is particularly susceptible to these differences in 
feel.  The main section was written with my own chronicle in mind, and the 
comments from Paul and Anders pointed out the need to consider other styles. 
 This section is intended to serve as a sort of "control panel" for these 
rules, giving suggestions on how to tweak them to better match your chronicle 
and the role you want hanging spells to play in it.

Casting Time
The half hour preparation period was designed to keep players from coming up 
with hung spells on the spur of the moment.  They were intended to be plot 
devices rather than a battle tactic.  You may actually prefer that players be 
able to toss off a hung spell more quickly in an emergency.  For instance if 
a player was trying to slow down pursuers, perhaps he could drop a quick 
forces spell that triggers on the next person to come around a corner.

Option 1:  A hung spell can be cast in a single turn at +3 difficulty.  This 
gives a minimum base difficulty of 9 and pretty much assures the player will 
dump quintessence into the spell in order to succeed.  This seems appropriate 
to the sort of quick and dirty, brute force magic of a character who is 
rushed and in danger.  If the caster takes five minutes to prepare, the 
difficulty is +1.

If I were using this option, I would also add some atmospheric side effects 
as a result of sloppy spellcasting.  Perhaps a spell gives off a nails on 
chalkboard shriek as it goes off, or perhaps the spell itself is actually 
dimly visible as a shimmering in the air like heat rising.  I would certainly 
limit the time that such a spell would last untriggered. (see Duration below)

Option 2:  Casting time is based on the complexity of the spell, from a few 
minutes for simple spells up to the full time required to make a comparable 
talisman for especially complicated spells.  You'll have to make your own 
judgments for each spell in this case.

Quintessence Cost
In my chronicle, quintessence is not particularly easy to come by and so the 
quintessence cost of a hung spell is correspondingly low.  Depending on how 
much quintessence your characters routinely carry around, you might want to 
increase this base cost.  

Option 1:  The quintessence cost equals the highest sphere rating involved in 
the spell

Option 2:  The quintessence cost equals the sum total of all spheres being 
used.  A Mind 2, Life 4 effect would require 6 points of quintessence, for 
example.

Duration
As originally designed, hung spells are intended to remain intact until 
triggered or destroyed.  However if you find yourself having to deal with too 
many of them (wards on everything, alert messages triggered by nearly any 
action that takes place anywhere, etc.), rule that hung spells degrade over 
time even if not triggered.  Their patterns eventually decay and their 
quintessence bleeds away into the tapestry.  If you do give hung spells a 
duration, the caster should have the option of maintaining the spell by going 
to its location and spending its original quintessence cost to rebuild it 
with no roll required.  The need to spend all that extra quintessence should 
be enough to ensure players use hung spells only where they are really 
needed.  

Option 1:  There is a preset time after which a spell will no longer 
function.  This time could be any figure you like, a week, a month, until the 
next new moon, etc.

Option 2:  The time an untriggered spell will last is determined by the 
number of successes rolled, using the standard duration chart.  (Personally I 
find this approach less than satisfactory since the shorter durations are too 
short to be of much use in most cases and 5 successes would make the pattern 
permanent anyway.)  

Triggering Requirements
The "normal human senses" rule for triggering conditions was intended to 
provide elbow room in determining how a spell must be put together, but some 
storytellers may be uncomfortable with this deliberate vagueness.  If you 
want the need for additional sensory magic to be more concrete, require 
additional spheres for any triggering effect instead of those not 
determinable under the normal human senses rule.  Under this option, Arturo's 
Car Protector (tm) would require correspondence 1 to detect the hand signal, 
or perhaps some other sphere depending on your interpretation.  Caution is 
recommended if using this option.  

Re-rolling upon Trigger
The reason for having all dice rolls involved in hanging a spell made at the 
time of casting was to save bookkeeping and make things easier for you, the 
storyteller.  While having a hung spell stored exactly as it was cast should 
work in most circumstances, there are some situations in which problems may 
arise.  Consider for example what happens if someone tries to anti-magic a 
hung spell as it is triggered, or something else happens that would be dealt 
with in a normal casting by increasing the original caster's difficulty.  
This wasn't an issue in my chronicle because I had already altered anti-magic 
(and anything else that raises another caster's difficulty) so that it 
removes the spell's successes instead of raising the difficulty.  I didn't 
want to deal with having to backtrack and refigure successes, especially 
since the dice would probably no longer still be on the table by this time.

If you want to leave anti-magic intact, consider this method for re-rolling 
an effect when it is triggered.  When the player hangs the spell, record the 
number of successes as usual.  If nothing happens that would raise the 
difficulty, this is all you need.  If someone does anti-magic the spell, roll 
a number of dice equal to the number of stored successes.  Note this is not 
the dice pool the original caster had when hanging the spell.  If the caster 
rolled five dice but made only two successes, roll two dice when the spell is 
triggered.  You know all these dice were originally successes, so adjust any 
ones or failures to be the minimum possible success.  Then raise the 
difficulty by the appropriate number and see how many successes remain.  

Example:  The ever popular Arturo's car protector is a forces 3 spell, cast 
at a difficulty 6.  Arturo rolls four dice and gets three successes.  The 
spell is stored with three successes.  When Benjie, the famous Prime adept 
and car thief, attempts to steal Arturo's car, the spell goes off and Benjie 
tries to anti-magic it.  He manages to raise the difficulty to 8.  The 
storyteller rolls three dice for the spell, which come up 3, 7, and 9.  The 3 
is a failure, but we know Arturo had a success originally, so the 3 becomes a 
6.  This is no longer enough to succeed against the anti-magic, and neither 
is the originally successful 7.  Only the nine survives, and the car 
protector goes off with only a single success.


===========================================================================

Comments can be posted to Mage-L or sent to me at:

sullivan@interramp.com


This document is copyright 1994 by John Sullivan.  All rights reserved.
Permission is specifically granted to copy, transfer, and otherwise use this 
document for non-commercial purposes only.

