X-Topic-No: 1
Date: Sun, 16 Oct 1994 18:35:44 -1000
From: daveman@olympus.net (David Noonan)
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Subject: Some Indian spirits
Message-ID: <199410170136.SAA21699@olympus.net>

One of the players in my in-its-infancy Mage chronicle (a Dreamspeaker)
bought herself three dots in Spirit early on. She quickly moved up to four
and said she wanted to try her hand at some summonings.  "Egad!" I thought,
"The Mage rule book only has a couple of Umbra denizens, and they don't
really fit with the Native American mythos this character would be familiar
with."

Fortunately I had a week to prepare, so I hit the library and gave her a
list of spirit types she was familiar with, and also what the game rules
were for contacting them, etc.  I'm a handout freak. So I thought I'd pass
'em on to you-all.  Feedback's welcome, of course.  And if anyone on the
list has real knowledge of Native American mythology (as opposed to quick
cramming on my part), speak up.

One note: I stole a lot of terms from Charles de Lint's _Moonheart_, an
excellent book for any would-be Dreamspeakers out there.  Some useful stuff
for Celtic bard-types too.  The gneechies came from Alan Dean Foster's
_Spellsinger_, and I always thought it was kind of a cute idea.  Good
reference works for Indian mythology abound, if you've got access to a big
library.

Here goes ...

Types of Spirits

	The Mage rule book identifies three classes of spirits in the Near Umbra:
the staggeringly-powerful Umbrood Lords, medium-strength Preceptors, and
least-powerful Minions.  Those names were obviously created by some dry,
stiff Order of Hermes mage.  Lame!  Any true Dreamspeaker would call them
(in order of ascending power) the quin'on'a, the honochen'o'keh, and the
rathe'wen'a.

Quin'on'a

	You've trafficked much with the Quin'on'a.  They range from
barely-sentient to low human intelligence.  Individually, they're probably
no match for a mage with her wits about her, but they often work in groups
and are often the pawns of more powerful beings.  Some of the major types
of quin'on'a:
	Gneechies: These faintly-glowing sparkles of light seem attracted to
strong emotion and powerful magick, although no one knows for sure.  They
flit about like Umbral mosquitoes, always at the edges of your peripheral
vision.  And that's it -- they're never harmful or even really annoying.
On the one hand they're the weakest of the quin'on'a, because they don't do
anything really, but on the other hand, they're seemingly indestructible
and under no one's command.  Some people say they see them, like motes of
dust, in the mundane world as well.
	Manitou: Location-based spirits, they possess intimate knowledge of a
single domain (like a forest, a river or a city neighborhood), but are
powerless outside it.  They are adept at finding or obscuring things in
their domain or protecting it from defilement.  They must be bargained with
to earn their assistance, and this is done in one of two ways: forcing them
or convincing them that their task is in the best interest of the domain.
	Ur'wen'ta: These spirits are berserker-like warrior spirits who'll fight
if summoned.  They appear as ghostly soldiers of a time period appropriate
to the area they're summoned from.  They require no inducement to fight,
but at the battle's conclusion, if they sense weakness on the part of the
summoner, they'll attack her as well.
	Tragg'a: These burly creatures appear as burly, hairless gorillas with
dull, short horns on their heads and razor-sharp claws.  They have the
intelligence of smart, well-trained dogs, but fight and do manual labor
well.  They require a bribe of Quintessence to command (one point per set
of orders).

Honochen'o'keh
	
	These are individual spirits and are roughly equivalent to an Adept- or
Master-level mage in terms of intelligence and ability.  Their desires,
motivations and morality are, if anything, more wildly divergent than that
of humans.
	Pukwudji: A trickster, a short little dwarf of a man who likes taking the
forms of other, mundane animals.  For some reason he's taken a liking to
you, and usually comes when called.  Full of mischief, he claims to be the
nephew of Old Man Coyote.  He's apparently quite powerful, but quite
unpredictable too.  But he's never intentionally caused you harm and speaks
to you with great affection.  If you're intent on mischief, he's even shown
up a few times without being summoned.  He loves to tell secrets, but often
speaks in riddles and requires a bribe to do so.
	A'wa'rathe, He-Who-Walks-With-Bears: A giant man, dressed in furs and with
a spear in each hand.  The spear in his left draws the blood of his foes,
while the spear in his rights closes wounds.  He's responded to your
entreaties twice, both times when you felt your own life force ebb.  He's
never spoken, or for that matter paid attention to anything you said.  He
merely appears, counts coup upon your enemies, touches your wounds with his
spear, then returns from whence he came.

	Other honochen'o'keh are known only by their names, although they may come
if summoned: the creator, Hoth'ans, Elk-Sister; the healer, Shin'sa'fen,
She-Who-Drums-Healing; the war-chief, Tep'fyl'in, Red-Spear-Of-The-Wind;
the shaper, Ko'keli, Lake-Wise; and the seer, Sins'amin,
She-Who-Dreams-Waking.

Rathe'wen'a

	You've heard of the legendary power of the Old Ones, of course, but few
Dreamspeakers have the temerity to disturb those so mighty.  But while
exploring the Umbra on one of your first vision quests, you believe you may
have brushed against one of them, so powerfully, blindingly pure was the
energy that charged the air during that meeting in the desert canyon.  It
was an old, gray-haired, wrinkled woman, no more than four feet tall,
dressed in a light blue tunic and skirt.  She turned to you, smiled and was
gone.
	Intrigued, you did all the research you could, and you believe that you
encountered Ketq Skwaye -- Grandmother Toad.  Perhaps you could call her to
you.  Perhaps not.
	Your mentor spoke of another rathe'wen'a: Mal'ek'a, the
Dread-That-Walks-Nameless.  He said Mal'ek'a would one day take him
screaming into the Place of Dreaming Thunder.  It was clear he was equally
scared by and resigned to the idea.

So that's it anyway.  If anyone's interested, I'll submit game stats on the
above spirits.

Cheers,
Dave

daveman@pa.olympus.net (David Noonan)
