IGNORE PAIN (Mind 1, Life 2)
        Allows the mage, through mastery of her own mind, to completely
        remove all pain. [This means no minuses to actions due to 
        damage.] However, this also means that the Mage has only
        a vague idea of how hurt they really are. [The ST should keep
        track of the player's actual damage, only letting the player
        know in vague terms if the player specifically states he is
        looking, "Wahlll, you gots a big gash on yer chest, and yer
        left arm is missing. But yew don't feel it, so's it's okee."]

DOUBLE PAIN (Mind 2)
        This extremely pleasant rote was developed by Jack Corinth, one of
        the stronger disciples among the Sons of Jupiter today. It locks
        on the target's mind, and doubles all pain felt by them. Especially
        fun for fighting those Lupines down the street...[Double the penalties
        for wounds. If the total penalties go over five, the target
        can no longer act, but can only curl up in pain.]

CROWDED ENTRANCE (Correspondence 3, Mind 3, Entropy 1)
        Created as a way of using teleportation coincidentally, the Mage
        a) uses Mind 1: Multi-Tasking to scan the minds of the crowd,
        b) mixes in a little Entropy to find a spot in the crowd no one
        is looking at/sensing directly, and c) Correspondence to teleport
        on in. Great for those quick get-aways.
        
MASTER NINJA TIME ROTE (Time 3, Mind 1, Entropy 1)
        Just the thing for the clever coyote, this Rote can turn anyone
        into a Master Ninja. It was first used by Glen Manning, a Mystery
        Science Theatre fan, who wanted to fight just like the ninjas in
        bad martial arts flicks. [Time slows down for the Mage, who then 
        can use the Dim Mak effect to his the best possible spot on the 
        enemy. Also, absurdly silly but effective dodges are possible, since 
        the attacker is moving in slow motion; -2 to all dodge target
        numbers.]

"KINDRED" SPIRITS (Prime 3, Spirit 3)
        This impolite rote is a dangerous way to get Quintessence from
        smaller spirits. The mage uses Spirit to call a smaller spirit
        [trust me, go for a small one.] which the mage then attacks, 
        and drains the Quintessence from. Also note how dangerous this
        be, as many spirits are but servants of more powerful beings
        you don't want to piss off.
FLOODLAND (Mind 3, Entropy 3)
        A great delaying tactics, this rote was invented by Yomphana
        (yoyo), one of the Sons diametrically opposed to the 
        Euthanatos. It floods the target's mind with all sorts of
        random thoughts from everyone in the area. This makes it
        virtually impossible to concentrate on anything. [For every
        success the Mage makes in the roll, take away one dice from
        the target's dice pools.]

BLOOD BOND (Prime 2, Life 3)
        Created by Arctus, this simulated the Vampiric Blood Bond
        by ladening the mage's blood with his own quintessence.
        [The person still needs to taste the Blood three times
        for it to be effective, and the mage will have to sacrifice
        a point of blood, along with the accompanying injury.]

THE NOTICE (Mind 2, Prime 2)
        This hard-to-describe rote creates a 'quintessence sink,'
        which fools any Awakened bengs into thinking that the mage is
        much more powerful than she appears. [Just has some quality of...
        power about her.] At the same time, it sends out a sort of
        'mental beacon' which causes everyone in range to notice
        and look at the Mage at the same time. 

        "(lights cigarette) Nobody touches the boy.
         That's right. The boy's mine. And in thirty seconds, me, and
         him, and the witch, are going to walk out of here. You know 
         who I am. Or you ought to. You know my reputation. Now...
         does anyone here really want to start something?"
                                        John Constantine, _TBOM_

THE DREAM TIME (Spirit 3, Mind 3)
        This allows the Sons of Jupiter to enter the Chimarae through a
        sleeping person's dreams [yes, you need a sleeping person to do it.
        Please note that the user will have to leave the person's dream
        and enter another dream, but this is usually not too much of a
        problem. Also note how useful that Dream background becomes.]
        
VISION QUEST (Mind 3, Correspondence 1)
        This rote is often used in conjunction with the initiation of
        a new member into the Sons. The Mage taps into the initiate's
        mind, completely controlling the mental landscape and occurences.
        (See _Exorcist 2_ for a good scene.)

LUCRETIA MY REFLECTION (Correspondence 3, Mind 3)
        Allows the caster to communicate with a person by looking
        in a mirror and concentrating on them (it would also help 
        the target wa also looking in a mirror.) Two way communication 
        is possible, but more importantly, it allows the caster to
        telelocate themselves directly to the person (by stepping into
        the mirror.) Created by Stanislaus Silver, who used mirrors
        for most of his foci. [Use ranges for Correspondence, but
        lower difficulty by 1.]
