
The Knocker

    No one knows where the Knocker came from, who he is or how old he is.
He just is. His purpose is unknown, though many have tried to guess. The
Knocker is a malicious, cold-blooded creature who takes pleasure in causing
pain, either physical or mental. He takes special delight in creating
mental terror in children, like a poltergeist or the bogey man myth, but
never directly causing physical harm. Many have claimed to have killed him,
or banished him into the Deep Umbra, and even one mage claimed to have cast
him into the Abyss. But somehow he returns to create havoc amongst the
awakened. You will know when he's here. Three knocks that seem to echo in
your head will come to your door, and when you open it there's no one
there.

    His mastery of the spheres is superb, but he tends to prefer Mind,
Spirit and Entropy to carry out his sick games. This has led some Tradition
magi to believe that he may have been an Oracle that has somehow been
warped into a Marauder. Other magi believe that he was a product of the NWO
or the Progenitors, some sort of new prototype born to hunt down the
Traditions. There is some evidence to prove the latter as the Knocker only
attacks Tradition Magi or Orphans. In fact he seems to concentrate his
efforts on young Orphans and Hollow Ones. 

    The Knocker always appears as a ragged looking old man, dressed in
dirty clothes, wearing dark glasses and carrying a white walking cane.
However his race can change from one moment to the next, sometimes he looks
European, other times African or others Asian. He never talks, and his face
is often set in a slightly crazed grin, as if he if laughing to some inner
joke.

    He is not alone in his work, but is accompanied by numerous small
creatures nicknamed "flitters". Imagine seeing something out of the corner
of your eye, but when turning to look, its gone, and then seeing it again
out of the corner of your other eye, for it only to disappear again. This
is from where they get their nickname. Whether they are creations of the
Knocker or beings that have been drawn to his mischief is unknown. They are
small creatures covered in coarse grey hair without any facial or genital
features. Each has six limbs, four of which end in hands that are similar
to an ape, while the other two are prehensile tails of great strength that
can stretch easily. The flitters tend to remain constantly on the move,
always just out direct vision. They are quick and agile enough to plague a
single person, even if he is in a crowded room, so only that person can see
them. This is how they tend to terrorise Sleepers and young Magi. It has
been known for many to become paranoid or have a mental breakdown when the
flitters have been "playing" with them. So far it is known that they use no
detectable magick, but rely on natural ability and cunning. Whether they
are sentient is a matter for debate, although they seem to follow the
Knocker without question. He tends to use them as living tools in creating
terror before he appears himself. When the Knocker is confronted they are
then used as diversions to keep his prey confused and unable to act
logically.  

GMs Details

    The Knocker is a character that can be used to keep the Players "on
their toes". Due to the way he is, the character is constantly different
each time he is encountered, what might have worked to defeat him one time,
may not work the next. Also he can be used to "taunt" and mislead the
Players. Have him turn up in a gaming session, then move straight onto
another scenario (they may not even face him directly only encountering
flitters). By the time the Players realise, you should be able to have them
thick into something else. Hopefully they should get slightly paranoid. For
example think of him as like the Joker, who know matter how hard Batman
tries to get rid of keeps coming back with more nasty plans for Gotham
City.

    This may sound as if I'm out to "get" the Players. In someways yes (the
GM should have fun also), but I've found that sometimes they need a "kick"
to get them going. I've used this type of character in many other
roleplaying games, although in different guises, sometimes as a foe, other
times as a friend/ally to the Players. Something like an elusive enemy is
always worth it as it never ceases to amaze me at some of the elaborate
plans they come up with to get rid of this universal foe (and even upon
occasion to dispose of the friend). 

    I've deliberately not included any stats mainly for the reason that I'm
running Mage using GURPS rules. However, I believe that a character like
the Knocker can become too restricted if given stats (although the flitters
should have some). This way he can be used against new or experienced
Players alike (and by new or experienced GMs). But I'll leave that upto
yourselves to decide. The governing rule is don't let the character
dominate the game. If the players come up with a good idea don't make it
fail because the Knocker is seemingly omnipotent, but likewise don't make
him a pushover. Hopefully it should cause chaotic fun all round.

Stuart Orford
17th June 1996
