  What follows are game ideas for incorporating Leviathan and the Cenobites
into a WoD chronicle. This is not the first time the topic has been
addressed over the InterNet, but I found other articles unsuitable due to
their complexity, and the fact that they added yet another independent
power to the WoD, which has more than enough cosmic horrors already.
  Since, in practice, you will probably be forced to extensively modify the
statistics I used in my game, I have decided to save bandwidth and
restricted myself to a simple paragraph or two on each separate entity
composing the grand labyrinth. What follows is not quite true to the
Pinhead of fiction, but I hope it will be a useful guide to the Storyteller
who wants to add the High Priest of Pain and his servants as another facet
of the incomprehensibly monstrous glob of absolute corruption and decay
made whole that is the Wyrm.


Introduction:
  The Umbral entity known as Leviathan is the legacy of an ancient
sorcerous experiment of the most malignant kind carried out in
Malfeas, the lair of the Wyrm.
  Long before the reign of Aliara, another Maeljin known as Count Theed sat
on the throne of pleasure, serving Karnala, Urge-Wyrm of Desire, with
unswerving loyalty and boundless creativity. As the eons passed, he
expanded his foul wisdom as far as he was able, ever seeking new ways to
please his depraved master.
  It was in the ascendant season of the elventy-seventieth moon of the
fifth month after the destruction of all creation when Theed's seers came
to him with a master plan, a gift beyond all compare that would mark him
forever as the grandest Count of Desire ever to live.
  His minions had discovered the "Rune of the Flesh", a mystic pattern that
had the property of amplifying and conducting the baser emotions of living
creatures. The potential for this application was immense, but Theed had a
simple and focused use for it. Using the power of the Rune, he planned to
allow Karnala to eventually feel all the pain and pleasure in the
Tellurian.
  When the Rune was worked into the pattern of certain Fomori, they gained
the ability to transmit their emotions and experiences into the labyrinth,
a stone construction in the Umbra designed in exact replica of the rune.
  This energy would be transferred to Leviathan, a spirit created at the
site to oversee the network, and then transmitted to an enormous gothic
tower in Malfeas; a literal cathedral of sensation, where the various
servants of the Wyrm or even Karnala itself could come to enjoy the endless
rapture.
  These special fomori, known as Cenobites, would be sent forth into the
Tellurian to collect victims and inflict suffering, thereby feeding the
labyrinth. Mortals who desired the gift of pain could be taken directly
into to the Umbra and delivered to Leviathan.
  There, embraced by one of the Gilded Pillars, their exquisite agony would
continue to feed the Malfean court. Finally, what remained, shaped in the
image of the Wyrm, could walk the world as yet another Cenobite, which in
turn would collect more fresh bodies for Leviathan.
  The most attractive part of the plan was it's self perpetuating nature.
All that was required to get things started was a few portal-boxes
scattered around the Tellurian, along with the (true, by the standards of
Karnala) promise that infinite pleasure awaited those who solved the puzzle
box and opened the portal. If a mortal's desires were strong, he or she
would inevitably complete the puzzle, and then the fomori would come.
  Pleased beyond all words by the gift, Karnala allowed Theed the rare
ecstasy of being devoured alive. And so passed the greatest Count of Desire
ever to reign into the comforting coils of the Wyrm.

  Leviathan: Leviathan is a  spirit entity created in the distant past by
Theed as an overseer of the labyrinth and a living focus for the pain
energy that flows from all the pillars in the system.
  Leviathan's spiritual body manifests as a great steel diamond, floating
suspended above the center of the labyrinth. From each of its poles flows
the concentrated power of corrupting evil. Everything it touches is subtly
debased. Living creatures relive their most unpleasant memories and  vilest
deeds, while inanimate objects will become tainted after sufficient
exposure.
  Leviathan has no mind as it were- more a great computer than a thinking
being, it is completely consumed with focusing pain and transmitting it to
Malfeas. It cannot attack or defend itself, but is capable of summoning all
the Cenobites in the Labyrinth to come to its aid- more than enough defense
to ward off any but the greatest threats. If this proves insufficient,
Leviathan can summon the very armies of Malfeas itself to protect it within
hours.
  Damage to Leviathan's physically form is largely irrelevant- not to
mention impossible in the Labyrinth, which it never leaves.



Cenobites: The fist Cenobites were a few lucky slaves in Malfeas who were
tossed into the Gilded Pillars simply to test the system, but since that
far-off time their ranks have swelled with the lustful and depraved, as
well as more than enough of the foolish and unwary.
  Most Cenobites look relatively human for fomor- Theed postulated that a
human-like Cenobite would inspire more terror in the potential victims than
a completely alien form. All of them bear the marks of their horrible
transformations: mutilation, scarring, unhealing wounds that constantly
drip gore or some fouler substance. Most of them are pale blue, a side
effect of the Wyrm-tainted ichor that replaces their blood.
  What once passed for their minds has been systematically destroyed by the
etching process. They now manifest only a cold, mechanical cunning  and a
few nervous habits left in their ravaged subconscious.
  All Cenobites have only one desire: to cause suffering and pain to living
creatures, not out of cruelty, but to help those creatures see the truth
that Leviathan has helped the Cenobites to see: that suffering is the
purest and most potent form of pleasure that can be experienced.
  Of course no human being could possibly understand this with their
limited mortal perspective on the situation, that is why the Cenobites must
"initiate" them into unending pleasure. After a few centuries, they too
will understand...
  Cenobites are immune to normal (non aggrivated) damage in their home
realm, but outside it they can be incinerated, blown to bits, or cut to
pieces, all of which the creature would love dearly- after taking a few
mortals back to the labyrinth to "enjoy". A Cenobite killed in the
labyrinth is truly destroyed and must be replaced with a captive being from
the pillars. Such a replacement arrives immediately. Destruction of a
Cenobite's corporal form does no harm to the spirit, although they may be
attacked in the Umbra, where they manifest as a poisonous cloud of
negativity and almost incomprehensible suffering, trailing a "tail" to the
far off labyrinth.
  In my game, the Cenobites were not only relatively powerful in hand to
hand combat, but masters of diabolic Lust and Pain magic.

  The "Gilded Pillars": Within the heart of the labyrinth, the bodies and
souls of Cenobite prisoners are trapped within obelisk-like pillars almost
seven feet in height, covered with blades, flayed skins, scenes of torture
and depravity, and eerie gold-inlaid runes that allow the suffering of the
unfortunate creature within to be transmitted into the network and
eventually to Malfeas. The edges of these pillars fold open like some kind
of demented flower, and the Cenobites, once they have sated their desire to
torment a victim, hurl the near lifeless body into the center of the
pillar, which promptly closes up around it and descends into the labyrinth.

  What occurs within is largely unknown, and likely so horrific as to
boggle the imagination of any non-diabolic being. Recalling their
experiences later, a new Cenobite's ravaged mind will only be able to
recall centuries of the most intense pleasure imaginable. No other creature
has ever been retrieved from a pillar before the transformation is
complete.
  Withinthe pillars, which may be much larger on the inside than out, time
slows to nothingness, and the physical body of the tormented creature never
dies or ages. Some creatures have yet to emerge from their pillars; if the
creature does emerge, it does so as a Cenobite under Leviathan's power. For
some reason, there are never more than 100 Cenobites active at a time- this
is more than sufficient to maintain the network and collect new converts at
present.

The Box: There are one hundred of these boxes in existence, one for each
Cenobite. Each box is a gold-encrusted onyx construction, etched with a
tiny fragment of the Rune's hideous totality. The boxes each open
differently, through pressure on their panels or along certain seams that
become apparent as the puzzle comes closer and closer to being solved.
  Solving the puzzle is extremely difficult, but those who truly desire to
know the dark secrets of the other side, or have been seduced by the legend
of the box will always seem to discover the way to open it. Once the puzzle
is complete, the box opens, and the Cenobite assigned to it jumps into
static reality. A vital element is the desires of the creature opening the
box or one in the immediate area, without which the Cenobite cannot
penetrate the Gauntlet.
  Once within reality, the Cenobite only has a few minutes to act before
"reality shades" (Static Reality's Killer T-Cells in my game) descend on
it. Therefore a Cenobite does its best to grab the victim (a touch is all
that is necessary) and carry him or her back to the labyrinth to be
tormented at liesure.

The Labyrinth: Inside the labyrinth itself, perceptions constantly change,
often summoning up grotesque images from the minds of the victim. Those
entering the place for the first time will wander down seemingly endless
corridors leading to nowhere, filled with horrible scenes of torture and
whirling pillars. The air is completely still and dead, even the horrible
shrieks of the damned do not carry more than thirty feet, a deceptive
statistic, since the labyrinth has different correspondence laws than
mortal travelers are used to. All roads lead eveantually to the labyrinth's
heart- an infinite plain, with only Leviathan hanging in the center of the
sky like a black diamond. The travelers stand on the top of a series of
incredibly complicated walkways, which seem to reach down an infinite
distance.
  When visitors appear, Leviathan closely examines the intruders, and
experimentaly bombards them with horrific memories and visions from their
own subconsious, just to see how they will react. In the meanwhile, it
summons horrible guardian Cenobites, who will attempt to place travelers
forcibly into a gilded pillar which will conveniently rise from the ground
for the occasion.
  Leaving the realm, if one is not a prisoner of one of the Pillars, is no
more difficult than leaving any other shard realm. There is no paradox
there, although altering reality immediately summons forth Cenobites, and
Leviathan's attention. Leviathan in theory completely controls static
reality in the labyrinth, but its programing will allow it to do nothing
but maintain the status quo.

  In my Mage/Werewolf Chronicle, A renegade cultist of Ecstasy discovered
the legend of the box, and was taken by the Cenobites. The remainder of the
group was forced to enter the labyrinth and retrieve him, or at least put
an end to his misery. In the end, they succeeded by bargaining with the
Cenobite who had taken their friend. They offered a powerful talisman in
exchange for their companion, but stipulated that the trade must take place
on earth. The Cenobite, hoping to go on a rampage once summoned, readily
agreed. Once the creature appeared, the group used powerful magic to
prevent it from leaving, while a werewolf in the group attacked it
physically. Although it could have killed the entire party, the Cenobite
was kept distracted until arriving reality shades tore its warped spirit to
shreds.


