Date: Sat, 11 Nov 1995 20:21:05 GMT
Message-Id: <199511112021.UAA25176@comtch.iea.com>
X-Sender: adamsim@chiefarch.com
X-Mailer: Windows Eudora Version 1.4.4
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
To: wod-l@netcom.com
From: adamsim@chiefarch.com (Adam Simpson)
Subject: Dark Pine Lodge v3


The Dark Pine Lodge

1  An Overview
The Dark Pine Lodge is a spiritual force from Native American belief that
has always been bound to an area of land near the west coast in the state of
Washington.  A lodge was built on its land years ago and became the Dark
Pine Lodge when the spirit merged with it.  The spirit has grown corrupt
with the passing of years.  Old Native Americans have not forgotten it, and
still tell of it in their tales.  Some of them know its true name, but do
not mention it in their stories.  These men and women know what it has
become, and would never travel there.
The spirit and the land where it resides are linked on the most basic of
levels.  One result of this connection is the spirit's inability to extend
itself beyond its land.  The land acts as its earthly form, and because of
this it cannot leave its borders.  When the Dark Pine Lodge was built on
that land it became a part of the spirit.
Dark Pine Lodge is a spiritual place, closely tied to another plane of
existence.  The spirit extends into the Umbra and is a domain there, darkly
linked to Gaia.  As such, it can be reached by those who step sideways, but
to do so would require a great deal of the traveler.  Characters attempting
this would have to make an expenditure of Willpower.  Garou would have to
spend Rage points, while mages would temporarily lose some Arete.
The Dark Pine Lodge Spirit was once a benevolent spirit of the land.
Shamans of Native American tribes communed with it, gaining visions and
wisdom.  Over the ages this changed.  The spirit grew distant from the
shamans, and as it did it grew corrupt.  With this corruption came a hunger,
one that could only be satisfied with the energies of humans.  The spirit
learned ways to tempt men to enter its grounds, where it would trap them,
never letting them see the waking world again.  The shamans learned of this
and tried to warn their tribes about the dark spirit's "seduction", for such
was the word they gave to the spirit's temptations.
The shamans were never certain how this change came about.  Some pointed to
older and darker spirits subverting the spirit of the land.  Some said the
spirit of the land was forced into evil ways while other shamans said it
followed willingly.  Other shamans claimed the spirit of the land turned to
dark hunger on its own, with many different reasons offered as to why.
The centuries have only seen an increase in its hunger.  The Dark Pine Lodge
still seduces men and women to enter itself and become lost.  It starts by
influencing their minds, then begins controlling their actions.  After the
subversion is complete the unfortunates enter into the Lodge and never emerge.
The spirit can fracture itself into lesser spirits which think and function
on their own.  These lesser spirits are not bound to the land as their
parent is, and can travel freely.  Because of this fact the Lodge creates
many of these lesser facets of itself to do its work beyond the borders of
its land.  The lesser spirits retain the Lodge's ability to seduce and
control mortals, and use it to lead people into the Lodge's power.
Time does not flow normally within the Lodge.  Events can happen in any
order there.  Time inside the lodge relates to time outside the lodge, but
that is as far as normalcy goes.  The Lodge can exert its own power over the
flow of time, causing strange effects.
If the Lodge foresees it will have an opportunity to seduce someone, subtle
and insidious signs will manifest before the person even makes contact with
a Lodge spirit.  If correctly interpreted, these signs can aid in avoiding
the Lodge's influence.

2  Entering the Lodge
There are several methods of entering the Lodge besides walking into its
Earthly location.  Umbral travelers may be able to force their way into the
Lodge by stepping sideways, as mentioned above.  Doing so could be costly
and dangerous.  The Dark Pine Lodge's Umbral realm is a twisted, evil place.
The spirit's deceptive nature has kept the realm looking much like it did in
ancient days, a beautiful forest.  The only difference apparent is the
structure of the Dark Pine Lodge.  Because of its intimate link with the
spirit, the lodge building has appeared in the Umbral realm.  Travelers to
the realm quickly become aware that something is wrong with their
surroundings.  The breezes and sounds of the animals are unsettling to those
with acute senses.
Tremere or Magi might develop a ritual or spell to allow them access to the
Lodge in an attempt to negotiate with the Lodge spirits in exchange for
power.  An attempt to do so would practically guarantee that (s)he will be
possessed or murdered by the Lodge spirits.  This does not deter some Magi
however, as the mere desire to enter the Lodge at any point in their life
opens the necessary doorway for a Lodge spirit to begin tempting the person
towards the Lodge's embrace.
There are places in nature near the Lodge along the west coast in the U. S.
and Canada which hold portals to the Dark Pine Lodge.  These portals open of
their own accord, but only rarely, usually once every 50 to 500 years.
These self-openings are dependent on stellar and planetary phenomena.  When
one of these portals is open, anyone may enter the Lodge's earthly structure
or its Umbral realm by merely stepping through.  One portal was discovered
to be a ring of Sycamore trees.
The lesser spirits of the Dark Pine Lodge use these places to open their own
portals to and from the Lodge.  The places used more often by the spirits
take on dark characteristics.  Those places frequented by the spirits look
downright sinister.
People seduced by the Lodge will enter it in their dreams.  These visits are
infrequent at first, but as the Lodge's influence increases the person will
spend every sleeping moment wandering through the Lodge.  When the Lodge
spirits move to controlling the person's actions, they again wander the
Lodge, though now their steps seem guided, allowing less freedom to explore.
In this stage they also start to see and hear traces of others in the
Lodge's endless hallways and rooms.  These glimpses and faint sounds are
increasingly difficult to forget during the person's time in the waking world.

3  Inside the Lodge
The lodge built on the Dark Pine Lodge Spirit's land still stands today,
looking exactly as it did when it was first built.  The building is
mystically maintained by its link to the Lodge Spirit and never needs any
repair.  The building is a modestly decorated 2 story structure designed to
be a hunting lodge/hotel.  A sign hangs over the front entrance and reads
"Dark Pine Lodge."
The lodge building has a direct link to the Dark Pine Lodge's Umbral Realm.
The Lodge Spirit can warp the building's interior in any way it desires, but
cannot effect the exterior.  If the Lodge wishes to entrap or confuse
someone inside it can increase the interior to any size and create any
number of rooms.  If someone suspicious of the Lodge enters and searches for
indications of anything unusual, the Lodge will return the building to its
natural dimensions and wait for them to leave.  If they stay too long or
damage the building the Lodge will summon lesser Lodge spirits.
Entrance into the Lodge begins in a part known as the Waiting Room.  The
waiting room is a large room with thick red curtains for walls and a zig-zag
pattern of off-white & off-black stripes on the floor.  It is furnished with
3 black upholstered chairs, 2 of them next to each other and the third a
short distance away and facing them.  The separate chair is adjacent a small
black marble end table with a small white marble sculpture on it.  The
sculpture appears to be of a planet or astrological model.  The chairs next
to each other have a similar end table between them.  At either end of these
chairs stand tall brass floor lamps.  Behind the chairs is a near-life size
white marble statue of a female nude.  Coffee is often served in the waiting
room, but it tastes foul.
If one passes through the curtains in any direction one will find a short
hallway, also walled by curtains, with the same floor.  Passing through
curtains out of these hallways lead to other rooms almost identical to the
waiting room.  The only difference will be the furnishings.  A seemingly
infinite number of rooms such as this exist, all with different furnishings.
If one continues in this way without a destination in mind he will most
certainly become lost.  However, if you walk with a specific location in
mind, and spend a Willpower point to get there, you can step through any
curtain and arrive in any location within the lodge.
The final location is the Meeting Room.  This wood-floored room is where the
Lodge spirits gather for reasons only known to them.  This square room is
occupied by a small stage in the corner, several chairs, a dark-colored
sofa, and a green table.

4  The Seduction
In order to feed the Lodge's unholy hunger mortals must be drawn in and
absorbed into the Dark Pine Lodge.  The Lodge cannot absorb a person until
he is first prepared.  To prepare the person the Lodge must corrupt them,
warping their personality and binding their will to the Lodge's own.  This
process ultimately breaks the person wholly.
The entire process is subtle and difficult to detect.  Lodge spirits can't
simply grab people and run off with them.  It wouldn't suit the Lodge's
purposes at all.  The process can be broken during any step, but the
difficulty increases as the person draws closer to the Lodge's power.
In the first step of the seduction the Lodge or a Lodge spirit will select
an appropriate person.  Usually those with weak wills or unhealthy interests
(i.e. the occult, death, demonology) are chosen, but all sorts of
individuals have been selected in the past.  The Lodge spirit will begin
communicating strange thoughts and desires to the chosen person.  The spirit
may appear in dreams, whisper to the person just low enough so as not to be
fully heard, or any variety of methods.  The end result is always the same -
the individual starts taking an abnormal interest in a certain place or
activity that he didn't have before.
The affected person will spend an inordinate amount of time in the new place
or activity.  The stronger the spirit's grasp, the more time will be spent.
The place or activity is chosen by the spirit, and will always be one that
requires the person to be alone.  In solitude the spirit can strengthen its
grasp and prepare the mortal for the next step in the seduction.
Friends or family members will probably notice the odd activities of the
individual and can try to pull him back from the spirit's power.  If the
affected person is forced out of his solitude and surrounded by friendly
people the spirit's draw can be broken.
In the second step the person starts entering the Dark Pine Lodge in his
dreams.  These visits may be infrequent at first, but as time goes on he
will begin to spend every sleeping moment wandering the strange hallways of
the Lodge.  Over time these dreams will become impossible to remember.  The
dream sequences will sap strength away from the individual, not allowing
normal rest.  Towards the end of the second step the person will behave
neurotically because of the lack of proper rest at night.  If those around
the individual seek to help him now, only a professional psychiatrist or
doctor can aid by this stage.
In the third step the spirit's grasp on the mortal is strong enough to allow
it to take control of the person's body.  When the spirit is in control it
will follow through with most of the person's normal activities, however it
will behave cruelly to those close to the person being controlled.  The
spirit wants to drive away the individual's friends and family, making it
easier to isolate him.  The periods of the spirit's control will lengthen as
its hold grows stronger.  The affected person will have no memory of what
occurred during the period of the spirit's control.  Although these memory
black-outs are distressing, the spirit's control is strong enough to prevent
the person from finding help on his own.
In the fourth and final step the person will leave everything behind and
travel to the Lodge.  During this step the spirit is partially in control at
all times.  It will tell the person exactly how to reach the Dark Pine
Lodge.  Only powerful means beyond the scope of normal mortals can help him now.

5  Lodge Spirits
The lesser spirits created by the Dark Pine Lodge have 3 forms:

1. Spirit Form - When Lodge spirits are created, whether by the Lodge itself
or lesser Lodge spirits, they always come into being as this form.  The
Spirit Form is invisible to all normal means of vision.  Lodge spirits in
this form can step sideways into and out of the Umbra automatically - no
roll is needed.  Their movement in the Umbra is restricted to Earth's
Penumbra, the Dark Pine Lodge's Realm, and those areas that can be construed
as "in-between" the two.
The advantages of this form are the use of spirit Gifts, the ability to
travel quickly across the Earth, an innate stealth, and the ability to
travel the Umbra.  The disadvantages are the difficulty to interact with the
physical world, the increased difficulty of influencing mortals, and the
fact that they can be detected by those with powers affecting the spirit world.
It should be noted that because of the unique nature of Dark Pine Lodge
spirits, Garou cannot sense them using Sense Wyrm.  Lodge spirits do not
appear to be banes or servants of the Wyrm.  The spirit of the Dark Pine
Lodge used to be familiar to the Garou Theurges in ages past.  Now, however,
it is something completely alien to the Garou.
2. Body Form - The Lodge is able to re-create the bodies of mortals it has
absorbed in the past and place its spirit minions within them.  The Lodge
spirit is then able to walk the Earth and interact with the world and its
people as if it were one of them.  This offers obvious benefits in seducing
mortals to the Lodge.
The physical body taken by the Lodge spirit is always an exact duplicate of
one of the people seduced and consumed by the Lodge.  It retains the same
physical attributes and Appearance.  The Lodge spirit takes on the
mannerisms and general personality of the body's original occupant.  None of
the mortal's skills or knowledges are retained.  Lodge spirits who take on
physical bodies spend time among mortals learning their ways, so
Storytellers should feel free to give Body Form spirits whatever attributes
and abilities they feel are appropriate.
Body Form spirits lose most of their Gifts and the ability to enter the
Umbra (though they can still use portals and the Dark Pine Lodge building to
enter the Dark Pine Lodge's Realm).  To make up for these shortcomings, the
Lodge has given them powers in the Earthly realm similar to vampiric
Disciplines.  Body Form spirits can increase in these powers over time.
A body can only be conferred on a Lodge spirit by the Dark Pine Lodge
itself.  Lodge spirits can only be freed from their physical bodies by the
Lodge's power or by the destruction of the body.  The Lodge finds these
mortal impersonators very useful, and creates them when it feels it needs to.
Lodge spirits in this form do not need to eat or sleep.  The spirit
maintains the body with its innate spiritual energies.  When these energies
run low the spirit will become "inactive."  During these periods the spirit
sits or reclines and ceases all movement.  The spirit may choose to imitate
sleep during its inactivity.  When a Body Form spirit is "killed" the body
will decompose at a slightly faster rate than normal.  This usually leads
coroners to believe the body died at an earlier time than it actually did.
3. Object Form - Both the Dark Pine Lodge and its minions in Body Form can
bind spirits they've created to physical objects.  Spirits in this form lose
all conscienceness and free will - they cannot move or take any actions.
These possessed objects are given to mortals chosen for the seduction.  They
work subtly on the person's mind, aiding the work of other Lodge spirits.
Sometimes the object's influence is strong enough to seduce a mortal to the
Lodge's power completely on its own.  The person owning an Object Form
spirit will invariably become attached to it, wanting to carry it with them
or be around it most of the time.

The spirits made by the Lodge can in turn create new spirits out of
themselves.  Each generation removed from the Lodge is weaker in power.  The
potency of a Lodge spirit is denoted by its Hierarchy rating.  The Lodge
itself has a rating of 0 while each successive generation goes up one in its
rating.
A Lodge spirit can dissolve other spirits that are descended from it.  Lodge
spirits cannot dissolve spirits not of its descent, no matter how low in the
Hierarchy they may be.  Dissolving lesser spirits is very costly.
The Dark Pine Lodge has the ability to summon its lesser spirits to itself.
The spirits will always hear and obey the summons.  This is done when the
Lodge wishes to increase or decrease their power, or dissolve them.
Lodge spirits are not combat oriented and will never initiate unnecessary
fights.  They will defend themselves and their chosen prey if they feel the
need.  They will always fight to the death to defend the Dark Pine Lodge.

6  Systems
Replenishing Power
There are 2 ways in which Lodge Spirits may replenish spent Power.  The
first is through Slumber.  Periods of complete inactivity will regain 2
Power per hour.  If a Body Form spirit is imitating sleep it will only
regain 1 Power per hour.  Lodge spirits Slumbering in the Lodge's Earthly
territory or the Lodge's Realm will regain 3 Power per hour.
The second method of regaining Power is through sapping Willpower or
Humanity from mortals.  When a Lodge spirit uses the Gift Sap Will, every
point of Willpower or Humanity taken becomes 2 points of Power for the spirit.

Creating Lodge Spirits
A Lodge spirit must use 3/4 (round up) of its maximum Power rating to create
a lesser Lodge spirit from itself.  The newly created Lodge spirit will have
a Hierarchy rating one higher than its creator.  Heirarchy 6 Lodge spirits
are not capable of creating more spirits.

Dissolving Lodge Spirits
In order to dissolve a lesser spirit, the spirit must use half of its
maximum Power rating and possess more Power than the spirit being dissolved
before the attempt is made.  It must also win an extended contested
Willpower roll against the lesser spirit (the lesser spirit suffers a +3
difficulty on its Willpower roll).

Lodge Spirit Traits
Hierarchy	Gnosis	Willpower	Rage	Power
1	11	10	8	60
2	10	9	7	50
3	9	8	6	40
4	8	7	5	30
5	7	6	4	20
6	6	5	3	10

Spirits in Body Form lose 10 Power while they inhabit the body.  The 10
Power is used to maintain the form.
Body Form spirits spend a number of Power points equal to the level of the
Discipline they use.  Using the level 2 Dementation ability would cost 2
Power, while using the level 4 Chimerstry ability would cost 4 Power.  Body
Form spirits use Gifts at the normal cost.
Using a Gift or Discipline is one Power cheaper when the Lodge spirit is in
either the Lodge's Earthly domain or the Lodge's Realm.
All rolls involving chosen mortals are -2 difficulty for Lodge spirits.

7  Powers of the Lodge Spirits

Automatic Abilities of Body Form Spirits
Auspex 1
Dementation 2
Obfuscate 1
(Gifts)
Break Reality
Forest Sense
*Possession
*Sap Will

Disciplines for Body Form
Auspex	1-4
Celerity	1-4
Chimerstry	1-4
Dementation	1-4
Dominate	1
Fortitude	1-4
Obfuscate	1-4
Obtenebration	1-2
Potence	1-4
Protean	1-2
Quietus	1-3
Vicissitude	1-2

Automatic Gifts of Spirit Form Spirits
Airt Sense
Break Reality
Corrupt Dream
Disorient
Forest Sense
Influence
Open Moon Bridge
Possession
Sap Will

Gifts for Lodge Spirits
Airt Sense
Armor
Blast Flame (Can only use this Gift in the Umbra.  Appears as a jet of gray
smoke.)
Break Reality (Can only use this Gift in the Black Lodge's Earthly domain or
in the Lodge's Realm)
Corrupt Dream
Disorient
Forest Sense (Can only use this Gift in the Black Lodge's Earthly domain or
in the Lodge's Realm)
Influence (from the Book of Madness)
Open Moon Bridge
*Possession
Reform
*Sap Will
Suggestion
Tracking

*Special cases, see below.

Possession - Lodge spirits can only use Possession on mortals chosen for the
seduction.  The mortal can be one chosen by any Lodge spirit, not just the
one using Possession.  The bonus for influencing chosen mortals applies to
the use of this Gift.  The chart for Possession speed is different for Lodge
spirits:
	Successes	Time Taken
	1	one hour
	2	half hour
	3	15 minutes
	4	5 minutes
	5+	instantaneous

Sap Will - The cost of this Gift is 3 Power for Lodge spirits.  Although
they can sap Willpower from anyone, they can only sap Humanity from those
chosen for the seduction.


