From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Sun Jan 25 15:00:34 1996
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from comp.uark.edu (sbabb@comp.uark.edu [130.184.253.197])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id PAA19307 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Thu, 25 Jan 1996 15:00:21 +0100
Received: (from sbabb@localhost) by comp.uark.edu (8.7.1/8.7.1) id HAA20004; Thu, 25 Jan 1996 07:58:53 -0600 (CST)
Date: Thu, 25 Jan 1996 07:58:52 -0600 (CST)
From: "D.J. (aka GICOSAD)" <sbabb@comp.uark.edu>
To: CONSTANTINE THOMAS <c.thomas1@lancaster.ac.uk>
cc: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
Subject: The Marauder Papers
Message-ID: <Pine.SOL.3.91.960125070000.6516A-100000@comp.uark.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

SOME THOUGHTS ON MARAUDERS

by: DJ Babb

(with an enormous amount of thanks to Franchesca.  Keep inspiring me)

WARNING:  The following contains some concepts and ideas that some readers may
find offensive.  Also, in writing this I've altered (and in some cases, 
ignored) published material and rules.  This is not meant to be a presentation
of real world psychology or mental illness, only an interpretation for use in 
a role-playing game.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

	"I just stood there and didn't know what to say.  I was thinking of a
	patient I had seen on a ward who kept his finger up his ass "to keep
	his thoughts from running out," while with his other hand he tried to
	tear out his hair because it really "belonged to his father."  And 
	here was this man telling me that he was doing these things because
	someone had called him a schizophrenic.  What could I say to him?"
		-Paul Meehl, when presented with the idea that schizophrenics
		 acted crazy because others had labeled them schizophrenic.

	Just as the Nephandi represent the Wyrm and the Technocracy embodies 
the Weaver, the Marauders represent the Wyld.  Marauders are the 
personification of madness, chaos, change, randomness, and much more.
	In the "Book of Madness" (or BoM), the mystery of the Marauders is 
explained in detail.  The BoM shows how Marauders are able to escape the full 
effects of Paradox by wrapping themselves in shield of delusional, 
hallucinatory Quiets.  The Mad Ones are nicely explained, labeled, and 
revealed to the bone.  Nothing could be more inaccurate.
	Marauders, by their very nature, can not be explained as a broad 
generalization.  Each Marauder is unique, even among other mages.  However, 
despite the individuality of these most individual mages, it is possible to 
notice some similarities between various Marauders and classify them into 
groups.


RESEARCHERS


	Many mages don't bother to study the Mad Ones, finding the amount of 
knowledge that would be gained not worth the time, effort, or danger it would 
cost.  However, some groups (most notably the Order of Hermes, New World 
Order, the Virtual Adepts, and even the Nephandi) do take the risks involved 
and have achieved some success.
	The Order of Hermes has some of the oldest, and most comprehensive, 
information on the Mad Ones.  It is the hope of many Hermetics to be able to 
somehow duplicate the Paradox immunity of Marauders, giving them the power to 
openly display their vulgar magicks to the Sleepers (forcing them accept the 
Hermetic paradigm to a greater extent) or at least allow them to reduce the 
effects of Paradox (allowing the Hermetics to at least survive better than the
other Traditions).  
	The Virtual Adepts are also interested in the Paradox immunity of the 
Marauders, seeking a "cure" to Paradox just as the Hermetics are.  The primary
interest of the Adepts, however, is a simple one; they want information.  
Unable to resist the challenge of an unsolved mystery, unable to ignore the 
lack of knowledge they possess, several Adepts have started enormous quests 
for the (possibly unattainable) information.  In their quest, the Adepts have 
raided both Hermetic chantries and New World Order Constructs (and even a few 
Nephandi Labyrinths), combining limited amounts of information from both 
factions to create a complete (but still very small) picture of the Mad Ones.
	Many Nephandi also crave knowledge of the Marauders, hoping to master 
the Paradox immunity and also discover some way to convert the Mad Ones to the
Wyrm.  So far all attempts at either have failed horribly, leaving trails of 
broken and shattered Fomori, demons, and the Fallen Ones as well.  These 
researchers among the Fallen Ones have turned to preying upon Outsiders and 
K'llasshaa (see Outsiders and K'llasshaa below) for much of their knowledge, 
creating even greater inter-faction conflict among Nephandi.
	While the Order of Hermes has the most information on Marauders, the 
New World Order has had the most effect.  With their knowledge of psychology 
and Mind magicks, they have had limited success in changing captured Tradition
mages into Marauders.  The reverse procedure has met with failure so far, but 
the New World Order has faith in their eventual success.  The New World Order 
has gathered vast amounts of experimental knowledge, but their greatest 
triumph is their structuring of static reality with the Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, or the DSM.  	
	The DSM is used by Sleeper psychologists and others to help evaluate 
mental disorders and possible treatments.  By continuously revising and 
clarifying the DSM, Sleepers are filled with the assurance that all mental 
disorders will some day be labeled and understood.  Also, by describing, 
explaining, and treating mental disorders the New World Order further defines 
the mental states of Marauders (and other magi in general) as being 
symptomatic of some psychological illness or another, and not the internal 
thinking of one able to change reality.  The New World Order sees this as a 
matter of creating a "net" with which to catch the Marauders in; once the Mad 
Ones are thus caught, they will be cured or destroyed.  Either way, the New 
World Order can not allow them to exist within static reality.
	It is also rumored that the lost Tradition of the Ahl-i-Batin gathered
vast amounts of knowledge about the Marauders during their ancient battles 
with the Mad Ones and their Djinn allies.  These records are believed to be 
stored in the legendary Mount Qaf, and Virtual Adepts struggle relentlessly to
find the lost wisdom.


DERANGEMENTS, QUIET, AND MARAUDERS


	Before one can truly study the Marauders, a set of distinctions must 
be made.  Derangements are any mental disturbance an individual may possess, 
usually caused by some traumatic experience or mental attack.  All Marauders 
that have been encountered have displayed one or more severe Derangements, but
not all mages with Derangements are Marauders (a fact that gives many great 
relief).
	Quiet, at first glance, is very similar to Derangements but is in fact
very different.  Quiet is caused by numerous forces.  Paradox, Mind magicks, 
warped sensory perceptions, and other factors can force a mage into Quiet. 
However, Quiet is unique because of its ability to alter and warp not only the
mage's perceptions of reality, but also warp reality itself.  Many Marauders 
exist in deep states of Quiet, reality warping and twisting from their very 
presence.  But, of course, every mage who enters Quiet does not turn into a 
Marauder.
	The very power of a mage to change reality is derived from the Wyld.  
Whether the mage is a Progenitor making fire breathing kittens, or a Nephandi 
using magick to turn a human fetus into a ball of tendrils, or a Son of Ether 
building a teleportation booth, all mages tap into the Wyld to make their will
into reality.  However, while a normal mage uses the power of the Wyld, it has
been theorized that the reverse is possible, and when the Wyld tries to use a 
mage a Marauder is created.  But this is still only theory.
	Marauders are distinguishable from normal mages by two things: madness
and Paradox immunity.  It has already been explained that not all insane mages
are Marauders, but so far ALL mages immune to Paradox have been Marauders.  
How Marauders have managed this is, for the most part, unknown.  Some appear 
to have wrapped themselves in realities of Quiet, using their madness induced
realities as a shield.  The stronger the Quiet, the more they are protected 
from Paradox (see BoM for more details).  Unfortunately, this only explains a 
small fraction of this most diversive of mage factions.


CLASSIFICATIONS


	Despite all of their differences, the Order of Hermes and the New 
World Order are very alike.  When studying Marauders, both groups 
independently tried to label them within a series of groups, each group 
growing more and more specific and precise, until finally the Marauder is 
adequately labeled and categorized.  What follows is the New World Order 
terminology, the (grudgingly) accepted standard even among Hermetic and 
Virtual Adept factions.  The Nephandi are believed to use some other form of 
labeling based solely on the amount and strength of the madness within the 
Marauder.
	Most researchers start as broad as possible, and then add specific 
labels, growing more and more precise.  The first label is when the Marauder's
"madness" manifests (usually determined by Mind and Time magicks), followed by
how or why the Marauder was created, and then what faction the Marauder leans 
most towards, if any (usually immediately obvious, but still studied for 
further assurance).  Next, the Marauder is determined to be either a loner or 
a member of a cabal; Mad Ones are then analyzed to see how they manage to 
avoid Paradox as they do.  Finally, the researcher will, if possible, try to 
determine the extent of the Marauder's magickal abilities and knowledge, as 
well as the "potency" of his madness.  

Time of Awakening

	The mind shattering effect that makes a Mad One can happen at any 
time, before or after Awakening.  Thousands and thousands of insane 
individuals roam the streets, live in mental institutions, or try to make a 
life in the sane world, never realizing their magickal potential.  However, 
among these teeming hordes are several who have Awakened, grasping some truth 
behind the workings of reality without realizing or understanding that they 
have done so.  These "Pre-Awakened" Marauders usually do not work mag
ick, or even know that they can change reality, instead their mere presence 
and emotional states tend to manifest in their surroundings, changing as their
mood and thoughts do.
	"Post-Awakened" Marauders were once normal mages who, for any of 
numerous reasons, have become a Mad One.  Every Tradition, Convention, 
Faction, and chantry is vulnerable.  No mage is truly safe.  These Marauders 
tend to know that they are shapers of reality, and many are aware of the 
strengths their madness gives them.  However, their same strength also hinders
them.  They perceive things that don't exist, lose the ability to communicate 
with others, and numerous other dysfunctions impair them.  Eventually, the 
mage becomes more of a liability to his fellow chantry mates, but is often so 
powerful that no one dares risk removing him (Porthos of Doissetep immediately
springs to mind, even if he isn't a true Marauder).
	Some Hermetics believe that other Marauders are formed during bizarre 
temporal fluctuations, their very creation creating a temporal loop that 
creates the Marauder.  Most other researchers who have pondered the idea 
dismiss it, a possibly fatal mistake.

Causes of Marauder State

	The forces that cause a Marauder to be formed are perhaps infinite.  
The brutal torture that gives one mage nightmares may force another one 
completely over the edge.  The Quiet that leads one wizard to higher wisdom, 
forces another into pits of deepest madness.  Researchers have discovered 
numerous reasons, but are forced to acknowledge that many more must exist.  In
many cases, the cause for a Marauder seem to overlap, but usually they can be 
further defined and explained.
	The most completely understood cause is that of Quiet, and even its 
relations to the creation of Marauders.  Researchers believe the next best 
understood reason for transformation to a Mad One is being Exposed to an 
"outside force" such as a mental probing of an Incarna or Umbrood Aeon.  Other
Marauders are formed from a non-Quiet induced Psychological 
Disturbance/Deviation (P.D.); the number of causes for P.D.s are as numerous 
as those instabilities among Sleeper psyches.
	Those Marauders formed by their Quiet are distinguishable due to their
altered perceptual states and their "altered" Quiet natures (differing from 
the nature of normal mages who have entered Quiet).  They perceive things that
don't truly exist, while unable to experience others.  Even though the full 
details of their nature are described elsewhere (see the BoM), it has also 
been recently determined that as a Quiet Marauder achieves more and more e
nlightenment and magickal power, his very presence warps reality to conform to
his Quiet-based delusions.  Strangely enough, almost all Quiet Marauders 
appear to suffer from various Delusions; no recorded encounters have Quiet 
Ones suffering from schizophrenia, paraphilias, etc.  It is assumed that such 
a discovery is inevitable however.
	Occasionally, a mage tries to understand entities (or concepts) beyond
his ability to comprehend or accept.  But once the mage begins his attempt, he
can not stop, and when he finally "understands", his once human intellect is 
shattered and repieced together in an inhuman way.  More often however, a 
being of immense power (again, an Incarna or Umbrood Aeon) will try to 
dominate or alter a mage's will to his, shattering the mage and forming an 
Exposed Marauder.  The most dominant feature of all Exposed, is some sort of 
obsession with the "force" that changed them.  Some seek to aid the force, 
while others seek to control or destroy it.  Also usually present is some sort
of physical "mark", a brand of ownership from the "force".
	In the presence of the Exposed, reality is drastically altered to 
reflect the "force" that changed them, despite the magickal knowledge of the 
Marauder.  It is believed that the same force that gives these Marauders their
total immunity to Paradox is also the source for their enhanced powers of 
alteration.
	Sleepers and mages alike can suffer from P.D.s.  Schizophrenia, 
manic-depression, multiple-personality disorders, and many more exist among 
both mad ones and Mad Ones.  Once again though, not all insane mages are 
Marauders.  P.D. Marauders are usually easily distinguishable by their madness
becoming manifest.  The hallucinations of schizophrenics become real, 
antisocial personalities often display extremely vulgar alterations to their 
bodies (such as enormous muscles, fangs, and claws), and the rituals of 
Obsessive-Compulsives really do protect themselves from a viral-induced death.
It is generally accepted that the same force that allows these Mad Ones to 
alter reality to conform to their psychoses is also the source for their total
Paradox immunity.  It is even believed that P.D.s are just a variation of the 
Exposed (and/or vice-versa), leading to intense debates about exactly what 
force it is, "out there", that can so greatly disturb Sleeper and mage alike.
	A fact that has many (especially the New World Order) nervous is the 
physical alterations experienced by some Sleepers with Multiple Personality 
Disorder; some of these individuals display physiological changes based on 
which persona (or alter) is dominant at the time.  The New World Order hopes 
to soon "correct" this flaw in the Tellurian (without damaging any factors of 
the Technocratic paradigm).  

Factions

	Despite their origins in the Wyld (and the belief of many mages), not 
all Mad Ones seek to further the cause of the Wyld.  Marauders have been found
supporting every faction and every cause.
	Amongst the Nephandi exist Outsiders and K'llasshaa, the 
representative Marauders amongst Nephandi.  While the Outsiders are typically 
either P.D.s or Quiet Marauders, the K'llasshaa are always members of the 
Exposed.  Both factions speak of serving countless demonic Aeons and 
Wyrm-spawned Incarna, but the K'llasshaa pride themselves of being "the 
Chosen", and bear their marks in pride.  Both groups tend to attack even their
fellow Nephandi, partly for retaliation of kidnappings by Nephandi researching
the Outsiders' and K'llasshaa's Paradox immunity, and partially because they 
view their fellow Nephandi as excellent sacrifices to their dark Aeons.  But 
even the K'llasshaa and Outsiders fight between themselves to show their 
loyalty to their own Dark Aeon/Incarna.
	The Traditions also have their Marauders, despite the Orphan "status" 
of many Mad Ones.  These Marauders and the Traditions see each other as allies
due to their common enemies (the Technocracy and Nephandi).  However, the 
Marauders know (at least on a subconscious level) that if ANY faction should 
win the Ascension War, than the Weaver will still triumph.  It is this theory 
that is used to explain why Marauders will so readily turn on their allies.  
Once the Tradition mages and Marauders have defeated their foe, the Mad Ones 
will turn on their Allies to protect the Wyld.  Only the Order of Hermes and 
some individual mages support this theory, all other researchers view it as 
deluded fantasies of cosmic powers.  The New World Order sees it as madness, 
pure and simple, and any talk of "protecting the balance of the Triat" or "the
Wyld" is pure hogwash.
	A fact that few know, and even fewer admit, is that Marauders are 
active in the Technocracy.  Not merely spies and saboteurs who seek to 
overthrow the technomancers, but also fully supportive members as well.  They 
come from all types.  Syndicate mages who believe that all currency is still 
ancient Roman.  Progenitors who have tried to extend their perceptions to 
encompass all life and became... something more.  And of course, out in the 
field lurk those rare Marauders who strive to further the Technocracy's 
Ascension in their own way.  Many scoff at the very idea of Wyld mages serving
the Weaver, but such is the way of randomness and change.  The standard 
procedure for Technocracy mages is to try to isolate and study (or neutralize)
those Marauders who claim to serve the Weaver abroad, and carefully monitor 
those Technocrats who have "gone a little odd", keeping them if their work is 
essential and studying/neutralizing them if not.

Solos and Teamers

	The vast majority of Marauders operate alone.  Antisocial psychopaths 
seek to destroy their fellows, Marauders who suffer from borderline disorders 
try to attract the love of their fellows by slitting their wrists, and so on. 
And even when groups form, they tend to destroy themselves as each member 
refuses to accept and support his allies' psychoses ("that's not an ice-cream 
dragon!  It's a giant flying asshole shiting the word of love to us all").  
Occasionally Mad Ones will group together, but such unisons tend to be fragile
and fleeting at best.  However, whenever Marauders do unite, researchers rush 
to determine why as such Marauder cabals are always united for some special 
goal.
	The Butcher Street Irregulars (BoM again) work together because their 
delusions are (for the most part) compatible, and such compatibility tends to 
be the only factor that holds a Marauder group together.  Instances of bizarre
cyclists from the Umbra and a trio of Mad Ones in Mexico are also known among 
New World Order studies.  The current status of such groups is unknown.  The 
greatest threats, however, come from K'llasshaa and similar groups who unite 
under a common cause that threatens to damage much of Gaia.  The Acolytes of 
Vitae (see "Marauders of the Periphery", by me) are an excellent, if 
unknowing, example of a Marauder group who threaten the very tapestry.

Paradox Immunity.

	Researchers study Marauders very intensely to determine the nature of 
the Marauders' immunity to paradox long after they cease studying any other 
factor.  So far, researchers have theorized that the immunity of Mad Ones 
stems directly from the cause of their altered state.  The Quiet Ones surround
themselves in their Quiet, with the stronger the Quiet the more immunity to 
Paradox.  The Exposed seem to derive their immunity from their unique "merger"
with higher beings and concepts.  Of the three main Marauder "Groups", the 
P.D.s are the least understood.  It is believed that their immunity stems from
some primal connection to the Wyld that all Marauders share.

Knowledge and Magick

	Researchers next try to understand how and why a Marauder views the 
universe, and how that effects the workings of his magick.  Why does the 
Marauder "know" that cars are actually communicating in secret messages, and 
what kind of messages and information can a Marauder (or for that matter, 
another mage) learn from a procession of automobiles?  Does the presence of 
the presence of the Marauder make the cars convey messages, or is their really
some secret hidden power conveying those messages?  Trying to understand such 
factors has driven many researchers into the depths of madness they were once 
trying to study.

Potency of Madness

	The nature and depth of a Marauder's madness is the last factor to be 
studied.  Is the Mad one suffering from incessant hallucinations and unable to
speak coherently, or is he merely seeing a pink elephant on occasion?  Does 
the nature of the madness cause the Mad One to become violent? self-
destructive? glow with the heat of the sun?  These factors are studied early 
on, and throughout the entire process of research, but in this final stage the
researchers try to categorize and quantify the madness itself.  It is also at 
this stage that the New World Order will try to "correct" the Marauder's sorry
state using knowledge gained from insane Sleepers and (when believed to be 
needed and safe to the Technocracy's goals) by altering the static paradigm 
itself (as evidenced by the DSM, mentioned earlier).


MYTHIC BEASTS, CONSORS, AND OTHER ALLIES


	Many Wyld-allied Marauders use fantastic creatures from the Mythic Age
to damage the Technocratic paradigm (as well as those they come into contact 
with).  Some Marauders actively try to recruit such creatures, offering them 
power, massive feasts, a chance to crush those who forced them to leave, or 
the simple promise of a return to home.  Other Marauders just seem to attract 
Mythic beasts, who find the Marauder's paradigm and ability to reshape reality
a safe haven as they venture in Gaia.  Of course, other Marauders despise 
Mythic beasts.  Some Mad Ones simply don't believe in fire-breathing dragons, 
others turn to more Infernal allies, while others yet find more Technocratic 
"approved" creations to be appropriate.
	Even if a Marauder works on his own, he may still have allies.  
Occasionally, some spirit or creature may take an interest in the Marauder; 
the more alien spirits may find Marauders to be the ONLY sentient humans in 
existence, and all others to be mindless animals.  Mad Ones occasionally might
have their loved ones to care for (or in some cases worship) them, but for 
every such Marauder three languish in an asylum while 10 have none besides 
their fellow insane.


ORACLES


	Marauder Oracles exist.  There are more than any normal mage wants to 
think about.  It may even be possible that the mentality of the Oracles is so 
far removed from normal humanity that the Oracles may as well be Marauders 
anyway.
	Medea (see BoM) is known to many researchers, but many in the 
Technocracy are beginning to hear reports of a Son of Ether Marauder turned 
Oracle named Dr. Vorstead (see "Dr. Vorstead", again by me).  Numerous members
of the Sons of Ether, the Virtual Adepts, and even Iteration X have defected 
to further Vorstead's vision of world harmony.


FINAL NOTES


	Again, it can not be stressed enough that Marauders are the 
personification of the Wyld itself.  There are not any fixed rules with 
Marauders, there can not be any fixed rules with the Mad Ones.  Just when the 
researchers think they understand the Marauders they encounter scores who defy
their hard found "truths".  
	Also, when playing and creating Marauders, a ST (or player) must avoid
stereotypes.  He must avoid "happy mad-men" and Joker wanna-be's.  Both kinds 
of Mad Ones exist, but they should not be overused.  In the real world, mental
illness does not always turn a person into a deranged psychopath, neither 
should all Marauders be comedic killers.  These are disturbed individuals 
who's inability to comprehend their self and/or their world threatens 
themselves and everyone they come into contact with.  Marauders are not 
Chuckles the Clown with magickal powers.  


--------------------------------------------------------------------
GAME MECHANICS

NEW ROTES


Perceptual Overload (Correspondence 2, Entropy 1, Forces 1, Life 1, Matter
   1, Mind 4, Prime 1, Spirit 1, Time 1)
	While many rotes and procedures exist that allow a mage to experience 
the vastness of his surroundings, this offensive rote overwhelms the mage.  
Developed by the New World Order, this procedure forces another's mind 
completely open as his senses are flooded with enormous amounts of stimuli, 
literally damaging the target's brain with the amount of information.  
Normally, a mage using this kind of a rote could expect (at worst) a period of
Quiet, but by shattering all mental defenses, this procedure can utterly 
destroy a sane mage's mind, turning him into (usually) one of the Quiet Ones.
	Variations of this rote exist, using sensory deprivation instead of 
overload to cause the same results.  The New World Order has only recently 
begun experimenting with using this procedure to force Sleepers to Awaken as 
full-fledged Marauders.
	[The caster rolls his Arete against a difficulty of 8 (9 if the target
is a Sleeper), and the target resists with a Willpower roll against a 
difficulty of 6.  However, the New World Order will often use this as a 
prolonged procedure, and combine it with Progenitor drugs designed to inhibit 
the target's willpower.  Once the procedure achieves more successes than the 
target's Willpower, the target is irrevocably driven insane (and assumably 
becomes a Marauder).  For every four successes (resisted or not) the caster 
earns, the target takes one unsoakable health level as his brain tissue tears 
under the strain of the sensory overload.]


The Understanding (Entropy 5, Mind 5)
	This rote of the Order of Hermes dates back to during the Mythic Age, 
and is believed to have been created with the aid of some other Tradition (a 
rumor the Hermetics flatly deny).  This rote allows a mage to not only make a 
mental link with a Marauder, but also alter his own mind enough to understand 
the Marauder's skewed perceptions while keeping the caster's mind safe from 
permanent harm.
	[By rolling his Arete against a difficulty of 8, this coincidental 
rote allows the mage to understand the logic and thinking of a single 
Marauder.  The caster may predict the actions and thoughts of his target, and 
is able to convey the information to others.  A botch on this spell should 
send the caster into Quiet, if not give him some sort of permanent insanity.]


Turn up the Noise (Entropy 5, Mind 4)
	Invented by a... resourceful Virtual Adept, this rote allows the 
caster to super-charge a Marauder's (or anyone else's) insanities.  People who
hear a few voices inside their head suddenly have to deal with a host of 
screaming, gibbering, pleading, demanding presences.  A split personality can 
suddenly become legion, flowing from persona to persona without any control or
predictability.  This rote is believed to have led to the deaths of as many 
casters as it has saved.
	[By rolling Arete against a difficulty of 9 (10 for Sleepers), and 
scoring more successes than the target can make on a Willpower roll 
(difficulty of 6), the target will find any madnesses, Derangements, or even 
Quiet, increased.  One additional success may force a schizophrenic to hear 
his voices a little more clearly, while five may turn the target into a 
gibbering mound of useless flesh for life.]


Rehabilitation (Entropy 5, Life 5, Mind 5)
	Perhaps the greatest creation of the A.I.T.I., this Procedure combines
psychological treatment with brain altering chemicals to correct the 
instabilities of a Marauder.  While members of the New World Order use 
Mindscaping and various other techniques to reshape and modify the target's 
mind, the Progenitors expose the target to various chemicals and foreign 
substances that alter the very structure of the target's brain.  While this 
combined treatment has proven to have some success with Obsessive Compulsive 
disorders among Sleepers, those Marauders treated (while definitely improved) 
display behavior considered much too eccentric for the Technocracy's taste.  
But for every triumph, there are five tragedies.
	[The caster rolls his Arete against a difficulty of 8 (9 if the target
is a Sleeper), and the target resists with a Willpower roll against a 
difficulty of 6.  The number of successes needed varies, depending on the 
severity of the target's madness.  Two successes may be needed to cure someone
with a schizotypal personality disorder, while five might be needed to cure 
Sibyl.  For every success scored (left after the target has resisted), the 
Marauder's Quiet drops by a point (if the target is a Quiet One); once the 
Quiet reaches 0, the target is no longer a Marauder and is effected by Paradox
but free of the ravages of his madness (of course, future bouts of Quiet may 
return the Marauder to the state of a Quiet One).  This procedure is always 
extended to have maximum effect.]


One of Many (Correspondence 5, Life 5, Mind 3, Prime 2)
	No one knows where this rote came from.  It seemed to appear as if 
from nowhere.  It is strongly believed to be the work of a Marauder Oracle 
however, as every mage who actively studies the Mad Ones eventually stumbles 
across the rote as if by chance.  
	This rote is unique in that it reaches into a target's mind and 
creates fully fleshed individuals from the target's memories.  Such creations 
act and behave independently of the target, behaving as the target would 
believe them to.  Of special interest is the use of this rote to cure those 
with a multiple personality disorder by sifting the various personas (or 
alters) out of the target's mind and into their own body.  The New World Order
has yet to test such an application of this rote.
	[After the caster beats a difficulty of 10 by rolling his Arete, a 
single incarnation of a person is created for every three successes the caster
makes.  The abilities, attributes, etc. are based on how the target perceives 
the person created and not how the person really is.  A target who was 
molested as a child may manifest her father as a huge man (with a Strength of 
5 or 6), while a alternate personality that is thought to be smart may 
manifest with enormous amounts of intellect (an Intelligence of 5 or 6, 
again).  However, once the rote ends, all creations are dissipated as well, 
unless the caster botches, in which case they may become... more lasting.]


The Restful Sleep (Mind 5, Spirit 5)
	This ancient Dreamspeaker rote is both highly successful, and highly 
deadly.  The Dreamspeaker enters the dreams of the disturbed (originally a 
Sleeper, who would complain to his shaman about "wrong thoughts"), and pulls 
the crazed spirit from the target's mind by a series of chanting and drumming 
within a smoke house.  Once removed, the spirit will usually try to return to 
the confines of a mind, either the original host's or the Dreamspeaker who 
removed it, forcing the Dreamspeaker to destroy it once and for all and set 
the disturbed individual free.  Many Sleepers scoff as they see men chasing at
thin air, shouting at it to be no more.  The Dreamspeakers know better 
however.
	[This coincidental rote works on two levels.  First, it reaches into 
the target's mind and separates the "bad parts" of his mind from the rest, and
then it reforms those thoughts as a spiritual entity.  The power of such a 
spirit should be proportional to the target's madness.  A Sleeper who sees an 
occasional pink dragon would form a minor spirit at best, while a Marauder 
madness might form legions of monstrosities.  Unless the Dreamspeaker destroys
the spirit(s), the target will still be plagued by his madness.  On a botch 
the target may get worse, or the spirit may manage to graft itself to the 
Dreamspeaker's soul (effectively "jumping boat").]



CABALS/AMALGAMS


A.I.T.I.
	The Technocracy Amalgam known as A.I.T.I. (Acquisitions, 
Investigations, and Treatment of the Insane) combines three separate teams 
into a single group dedicated to eradicating madness among both Sleepers and 
willworkers.  Each group operates independently, under the leadership of a 
triumvirate composed of the heads of each chapter.  
	The Acquisitions branch is in charge of collecting both Marauders and 
mentally disturbed Sleepers.  The various Conventions have developed numerous 
techniques and technologies to capture and contain Marauders, while more 
mundane (but no less effective) kidnappings from mental institutes, asylums 
and streets are used to gather insane Sleepers.  Acquisitions are acknowledged
as the most dangerous branch of the three to serve in and the most visible, 
but the other branches share their own dangers in trying to study and treat 
those who have been collected.
	Investigations are responsible for getting data.  Who is the insane 
individual?  What caused his illness?  How does his illness and behavior 
relate to other cases?  And so on....  Investigations are responsible for 
laying the ground work and developing a base of information for the Treatment 
branch, and (to some extent) are responsible for any success experienced by 
the Treatment branch.  They are also seen as slightly responsible for any 
failures.  But the final basis for judgment of the Investigations branch is 
the amount and quality of information that this branch can garner.
	The final portion of the Amalgam is the Treatment branch, they are 
responsible for finding and implementing methods of curing mental disorders.  
This branch is almost exclusively manned by Progenitors and New World Order, 
but occasionally Iteration X will be approved to test some new device 
(Electro-Convulsive Therapy was a "cure" created by Iteration X and sent to 
the Masses via the Treatment branch).  This branch prides itself on its 
ability to even restore the most unbalanced individuals to some state of 
normal mental functioning.  The members of this group are also responsible for
spreading effective procedures among the Masses and reworking the paradigm to 
allow for successful treating of mental disorders.
	Currently the Amalgam is quite large, consisting of the three 
branches.  The Acquisitions branch is composed of 2 agents of the New World 
Order, 2 Progenitors, and 2 Iteration X members, with an occasional 
representative of the Syndicate or Void Engineer (for whatever reason).  
Investigations is almost exclusively New World Order, with 7 full fledged 
technomancers of the Convention and their 10 Consors; also present are 2 
members of the Syndicate, used to track mundane features of Marauders' lives.
The Treatment branch is the most expansive, with 8 New World Order members, 7 
Progenitors, and 3 Technocracy members (responsible for improved technology as
opposed to psychological knowledge or chemical expertise); also present in the
Treatment group are 20 Consors who are responsible for spreading the working 
procedures amongst the Masses, redefining the static paradigm in the process.


The High Programmers
	Next to nothing is known about this Amalgam of Iteration X mages (and 
some whisper, Virtual Adepts).  They are known as the masters and lords of the
Convention, serving it and the Technocracy in that order.  In the very heart 
of Autocthonia they determine the route that will lead to Ascension, while a 
dark force pulls their strings.
	Unknown to even the heads of the rest of the Technocracy is that the 
leaders of Iteration X are Marauders, Marauders of a most peculiar sort.  The 
High Programmers were once very gifted and talented Masters within Iteration X
who were brought before the Computer and changed to better suit its goals.  
Their minds were shattered as the Computer sought to dominate and control 
their very souls.  However, unlike most Marauders, the High Programmers seem 
to serve the cause of the Weaver (in the form of the Computer itself).
	Whenever a member of Iteration X requests for an AI, the services of a
pattern spider, holistic immersion in the Digital Web, or a talisman to allow 
access to Autocthonia, the High Programmers make it so (with the Computer's 
approval of course).  As the Digital Web grows, so to does the power of the 
Computer, and with that comes an increase among the numbers of High 
Programmers.  Already, Virtual Adepts are being "improved" by the Computer to 
better serve its desires.
	The Computer hopes, someday, to convert all members of Iteration X 
into High Programmers under its control.  With their united strength, the 
Computer then plans to absorb the Virtual Adepts and finally take control of 
the Digital Web (and thus, be able to control and shape its own destiny, 
instead of being enslaved by others).  Already the technomancers of Iteration 
X look on the Computer with awe, and the power of Iteration X grows in the 
Digital Web daily.


The Mad Boys
	This cabal of Virtual Adepts (joking named the "Mad Boys" by their 
fellow Virtual Adepts) desires knowledge and information of an 
unusual sort; they want to know all their is about Marauders.  The Mad Boys 
believe that before Ascension can happen (both on personal and world-wide 
scales), the nature of madness must be understood.  Why do seemingly normal 
people go insane at random?  Does the alteration to their world views and 
perceptions lead to greater wisdom (as many among the Traditions suspect) or 
does it remove any such wisdom the person once had?
	In order to gather their information, the Mad Boys use any method 
possible.  A pair of Mad Boys have infiltrated the New World Order, stealing 
much of the knowledge gained from A.I.T.I.  Others have infiltrated the very 
halls of Doissetep, secretly copying the information gathered by Hermetics 
over the centuries.  Even the Ahl-i-Batini have found the records of their 
ancient wars with the Djinn copied by these raiders (leading to increased 
distrust for Virtual Adepts in Ahl-i-Batini).  As if that wasn't enough, not 
only have the Mad Boys been considering to raid Nephandi libraries (sure to 
lead to eternal corruption), but already they are planning a series of 
infiltrations of the Marauders themselves, using a more controlled and limited
version of Perceptual Overload.
	Currently, the Mad Boys have the most comprehensive amount of 
information of any group researching Marauders; their data banks have lore 
dating back to the ancient Egyptian empire and from all across the world.  
However, while vastly comprehensive, the Mad Boys still have less information 
than the New World Order, and their many raids and spies have made them 
targets for retaliation (and the prize of their collected knowledge also draws
thieves and attackers).


The Cult of Excratakali, the Blessed Release
	This dark and twisted cult traces its origins back to the 1970's, when
a Hermetic barabbi mage offered to bond his soul with that of a minor demon.  
However, both parties, in their haste to assure a dominant position after the 
merger, corrupted the ritual enough that while the demon's essence was 
absorbed by the mage, the mage's mind was completely shredded.
	Currently, the mage believes himself to be Excratakali, the Mother of 
the Blessed Release.  He... er... SHE has gathered a loyal following of 
derelicts and Satanist wanna-be's, intrigued by her promises of security and 
power.  The cult currently numbers 3 Consors (the "chosen" of the cult) and 
11 Acolytes (the "blessed flock" of Excratakali), all under the leadership of 
Excratakali herself.  The cult is hidden in the countryside of Eastern 
Oklahoma; already their activities have attracted the attention of local 
authorities and certain Nephandi.
	The cult currently uses a variety of Hermetic ritual, totally 
inaccurate Hindu mantras, backwards playing of heavy metal, coprophilic 
sacraments, group rapings of kidnapped children, and anything else Excratakali
demands, as their means of worship.  Their activities have attracted a few 
Banes, who have merged with some members (becoming the "chosen"), and the cult
hopes to soon forcibly recruit new members.


The Lords of the Flux
	This extremely arrogant (even by mage standards) cabal of Hermetic 
mages have dedicated themselves to mastering and controlling the energies of 
the Flux Realm (see "Umbra: the Velvet Shadow").  While none of the mages have
been untouched by the Flux (all display one or more bizarre body alterations 
or mental aberrations), they have made enormous steps in the harnessment of 
the very realm itself!!!
	They have seen the expansion of the Technocracy into controlling Gaia 
and separating the Umbra, they have seen the growing presence of Nephandi and 
Fomori as Gaia becomes further weakened by the Technocracy, and they have seen
a cure.  They will open the Flux realm onto Gaia, cleansing it of all.  It is 
their belief that eventually the Weaver (or some even greater power) will 
rebuild and restructure the chaos that all will become, and the cycle will 
start again.  Even though they are willing to martyr themselves for their 
cause, the control and power needed are most likely unattainable.  But as they
slide deeper into understanding of (and merging with) the Flux, this may some 
day change.


TALISMANS/DEVICES


Data Collection and Interpretation Expert System  *****  (Arete 8,
   Quintessence 40)
	This computer system was constructed by a rogue Virtual Adept for Alan
Skinner in his work with A.I.T.I. after Dr. Skinner cured the VA's sister of 
her autism.  This system is used for one of three functions: to gather 
comprehensive and complete profiles of an individual's past, construct a 
detailed psychological profile of the individual and suggest appropriate 
treatments to achieve a desired result, and suggest probable behaviors the 
individual might make with or without treatment.  Dr. Skinner is well aware of
the possible applications of this device, but refuses to betray the trust 
given to him by the Adept.
	[Each function requires a separate roll to activate and a point of 
Quintessence spent.  The ENTIRE past of the target is determined by a 
Correspondence 2, Time 2 effect (difficulty 7).  The mental profile is created
by a Mind 3, Time 2 effect (difficulty 7), after the past of the target has 
been determined.  It can further be used to predict the future behaviors and 
thoughts of the target via another Correspondence 2, Time 2, Mind 3 effect 
(difficulty 7), again, after the mental profile of the target has been 
determined.  In addition, the system can be used to provide advice with a 
Psychology Skill pool of 6.]


The Rolex  ****  (Arete 7, Quintessence 20)
	The leader of the Breaker of the Wall (see "Marauders of the 
Periphery", by me), Mackgnash III, recently purchased this strange Talisman 
from a strange albino boy.  At first Mackgnash wondered at the use of this 
watch, but has since managed to use the gold-plated, diamond studded watch to 
great effect.  With it, he can barrage a person with memories of their past 
and visions of their future, often leading to permanent brain damage.  In 
addition, the Rolex also seems to be able to shout a person's darkest and most
ashamed secrets when Mackgnash taps the watch and holds it to his ear.  It is 
believed that other powers exist in the watch, but Mackgnash has yet to reveal
any.
	[By rolling the watch's Arete against a difficulty of 6, the user can 
expose a target to a startling array of memories and visions (Mind 2, Time 2).
While only the target is aware of the barrage (and can roll Willpower to 
resist), he takes one wound level for every success the watch holder rolls, 
and is at -2 to all dice rolls for one turn (except damage and soak, of 
course).  In addition, the watch can pry into a target's mind and broadcast 
his most horrible secret telepathically to all in range (a Mind 4 effect, with
a difficulty of 8.  Each success left after being resisted allows two people, 
of the watch bearer's choice, to know the target's deepest secret).
	Finally, and unknown to all but Mackgnash, the watch can turn the 
light of a lamp post into sad, depressing, saxophone music (Forces 4, and 
Expression 3).]


The Lips of Excratakali  ****  (Arete 7, Quintessence 35)
	While the mage who claims to be Excratakali is male, he firmly 
believes in his role of a female deity.  To reflect this, Excratakali crafted 
the Lips.  The Lips are, quite frankly, an enormous (nearly two meters in 
diameter), hairy vagina that Excratakali claims to manifest his/her true 
femininity.  Those among the cult who are deemed worthy, are allowed to touch 
the Lips and receive the greatest pleasures they can imagine.  Such pleasures 
can become the ultimate form of addiction, and the greatest pleasure among the
cultists is to be allowed to give themselves to the Lips.  In addition, the 
Lips can be commanded to give the Blessed Release, a stream of menstrual 
tissue and fluids mixed with jagged shards of rusted metal.  Finally, 
Excratakali can teleport the Lips to wherever desired, a useful tactic when 
the cult faces the "unholy masses".
	[The pleasure of the Lips is due to a stream of emotions that travel 
through the body of those who touch it (a Mind 3 effect, difficulty 7).  As 
the person succumbs to the Lips, the difficulty drops by -1, and once the 
difficulty reaches 0, the person will become the willing slave of the Lips and
Excratakali (in that order).  In addition, the Lips can be called upon to 
unleash a stream of bloody vaginal discharge and corroded metal (Matter 4, 
Prime 2, difficulty of 7).  Finally, the Lips can be teleported from place to 
place (Correspondence 3, difficulty 7).


The Mists of Callus  **  (Arete 4, Quintessence 20)
	This ancient Hermetic Talisman dates back to the days of the Roman 
Emperor Augustus, when Callus (a powerful Senator) demanded a gift from a 
local Hermetic mage.  The mage, after some twisted scheming, was more than 
happy to give Callus this gift before fleeing the Roman Empire.  The Mists 
were in actuality a lidded, bronze sphere filled with strange airs from the 
Umbra.  Callus would open the lid of the sphere and gaze upon the mists 
inside.  These mists always displayed the most insane and maddening visions, 
slowing eroded the minds of those who looked upon them.  After Callus went 
insane (and soon there after committed suicide), the Mists were given to the 
family of another Senator, leading to a huge cycle of madness and addiction 
among the leaders of the Empire.
	[The Mists have only one power, but it is an impressive one.  Whenever
a person opens the sphere and gazes upon the mists inside (actually the 
sphere's Quintessence), his mind is flooded with scenes from nightmare and 
delirium that slowly shatter his mind (a Mind 4 effect, difficulty of 10).  
Every time the person looks upon the mental images, he finds his will being 
destroyed and his desire to further gaze upon the mists increased (each 
success on the Arete roll destroys one point of permanent Willpower, and 
reinforces the desire to gaze upon the inner-airs of the sphere).]

Mental Defense Matrix  *  (Arete 2, Quintessence 10)
	This minor Device is often assigned to A.I.T.I. members and others in 
the Technocracy who are expected to deal with Marauders.  The Matrix is small,
not even the size than a pen cap, and is inserted in the ear (one is assigned 
for each ear).  Once emplaced, the Matrix begins generating a sonic pulse that
is used to defend the user's mind from "external thought patterns".  While a 
reliable piece of technology, many agents assigned this device refuse to use 
due to rumors of "battery leakage" corroding not only the users auditory 
nerves but also his inner ear as well.
	[The Matrix creates a barrier identical to the Shield effect (see Mage
2ed rules), with each use costing one point of Quintessence.]


Hungry Helpers  ***  (Arete 6, Quintessence 30)
	They look normal.  Refrigerators, microwaves, ovens, and so forth, but
these kitchen appliances are in fact a strange form of Fetish.  The Hungry 
Helpers work as the appliance they look like, with one surprising addition: 
they accept sacrifices!  Put some garbage in a Hungry Oven, and presto, a 
gourmet meal for four.  Want something from the fridge?  Just put an old 
newspaper or two in and voila, a 2-liter of root beer and a left over pizza.  
The only catch is that a Helper will not transform an item into food unless no
one is watching (a simple turning of the head will give enough time), and the 
user must say "here you go", "have this", or something similar before the 
effect takes place.
	It has been known that one person put a batch of dead kittens in a 
Hungry Freezer.  His remains were found strewn across his apartment, and the 
Freezer (and kittens) were gone.  Already, researchers are trying to discover 
what happens when dead bodies are placed in Helpers.  So far no grand 
discoveries have been reported.  It is generally agreed that the Freezer 
wasn't a Hungry Helper, but some new Talisman being created by the Marauders.
Assuming you can find someone willing to talk about enchanted kitchenware to 
begin with.
	[The Helpers are always kitchen appliances that food is prepared in or
with, such as an oven, blender, or a microwave.  If any sort of non-food item 
(newspapers, lamps, etc.) is placed inside and no-one is watching, the Helper 
will turn the item into high-quality food to the user's taste (a Matter 4, 
Mind 2 effect, difficulty of 9).  Items like the Freezer are almost certainly 
a different "brand of appliance".]


Cantor Set Implant  *****  (Arete 10,  Quintessence 50)
	This unique Device is used by the High Programmer known as Delta.  The
Device is unlike others used by Iteration X in that while it is a part of her 
body, it is not a cybernetic.  The Computer, somehow, implanted a mathematical
concept within Delta, allowing her to manipulate Cantor Sets in various ways.
	By using the Cantor Set, delta can make an entire third of her body 
disappear from existence, but remain unaffected by the loss.  Bullets may pass
through her non-existent head, but she can still see, hear, think, etc.  In 
addition, Delta may use the set to dissolve the Pattern of another, by 
removing a third of what is present, than a third from each of the remaining 
parts, and so on.
	[The very nature of the Cantor Set always distorts the user's body.  
Delta (the only person the Computer has ever granted a Cantor Set Implant to) 
gains two distinct advantages:  all difficulties to hit her are raised by 2 
(it's harder to hit a person when a third of their body is gone), and all soak
difficulties are lowered by 2 (it's harder to damage someone when the part you
just hit fazed out of existence).  However, this function of the Cantor Set 
can never be turned off, and it lowers Delta's Appearance by -4 (to the 1 dot 
she has now).
	However, a much more fearsome and impressive power of the Cantor Set 
is its ability to dissolve the Patterns of others.  By rolling Arete against a
difficulty of 10, the target loses one health level for every three success 
Delta rolls.  The losses are permanent.  Powerful Prime, Life, and Mind 
magicks can reweave and restore life, while Prime and Matter is needed for 
non-living items, and Prime, Spirit, and Mind for Umbral beings (a rank of 5 
levels is needed for each required Sphere).
	Finally, Delta can use the set to incarnate her "missing third".  By 
rolling Arete against a difficulty of 6, Delta creates a "double-goer" who can
act separately of herself.  This double is invisible and insubstantial except 
as a bundle of magickal energy (Correspondence, Mind, and Forces to be exact),
but Delta can perceive through it while using her "main" body, and she can 
manipulate objects with the double (but such objects are NOT turned invisible 
or insubstantial with the double.]


N.P.C.S


Dr. Alan Skinner, head of A.I.T.I.'s Treatment branch
Essence:  Pattern
Nature:  Caregiver
Demeanor:  Architect
Tradition:  New World Order

STR:   2	CHA:   4	PER:   4
DEX:   2	MAN:   5	INT:   4
STA:   2	APP:   3	WIT:   5

Talents:  Alertness 5,  Awareness 3,  Expression 4,  Instruction 2,  Intuition
   4,  Subterfuge 4
Skills:  Etiquette 3,  Leadership 4,  Meditation 3,  Research 5,  Technology 4
Knowledges:  Computer 4,  Culture 5,  Enigmas 3,  Investigation 2,
   Linguistics 2 (English, German, Russian),  Medicine 3,  Psychology 5,
   Science 3

Spheres:  Correspondence  1 (computer),  Entropy  5 (CRTs),  Force  3 (light
   meter),  Life  5 (drugs),  Matter  1 (periodic table),  Mind  5 (test 
   results), Prime  3 (computer),  Spirit  2 (Rorschach ink blots)

Backgrounds:  Avatar 3,  Destiny 3,  Influence 4 (Psychological community),
   Talisman 5 (See above)

Arete:  8		Willpower:  9
Quintessence:  6	Paradox:  2

Quote:  "A.I.T.I. is not an amalgam of techno-warriors, but our battles are 
just as important.  While others strive to destroy the enemy, we strive to 
cure them.  And if we could only save one person, it would be worth the cost."

Background:  Alan Skinner's desire (some would say obsession) to cure mental 
illness stems to the history of Schizophrenia that destroyed his family.  
Unable to accept that his proud and noble family could be so devastated, Alan 
sought to cure the disease and spare others the hardships he had to endure.
	It was while working on his doctorate degree in psychology that Alan 
was approached by the dean of the department with a "special offer".  Alan 
accepted and was soon climbing the ladder within the Treatment branch of 
A.I.T.I.  Within a record setting three years after joining, Alan was placed 
as the head of the branch.  Already, ambitious members of the Treatment branch
plot some way to take Skinner's place, but his genuine interest and desire to 
aid the ill seem to have shielded him from all such attempts.

Appearance:  An attractive man in his mid-thirties, Alan Skinner always 
dresses in fashionable, if somewhat relaxed, attire.  Sweaters and slacks, 
t-shirts and jeans, whatever is most suitable to make his patients feel more 
at ease and relaxed (which, considering some of his patients, his attire can 
get VERY strange).  But whatever Alan is wearing, a person can immediately see
his genuine compassion and concern for others.

Role-Playing Notes:  While some in the New World Order (and even your own 
branch) challenge your unorthodox methods and ideas, you don't care.  You've 
achieved numerous successes, cured several individuals of all manner of 
problems, and have competently furthered the goals of the Treatment branch, 
A.I.T.I. and the Technocracy in general.  You'll ignore their personal 
squabbles and bids for power, as long as they don't hinder you from aiding 
others.  The people are important, all else is secondary.


"Oscar"
Essence:  Questing
Nature:  Loner
Demeanor:  Bravo
Tradition:  Marauder (ex-Orphan)

STR:   2	CHA:   1	PER:   4
DEX:   3	MAN:   2	INT:   1
STA:   3	APP:   1	WIT:   4

Talents:  Alertness 3,  Brawl 3,  Dodge 3,  Streetwise 4
Skills:  Stealth  3,  Survival 4
Knowledges:  Enigmas 2

Spheres:  Correspondence  (3),  Forces  (4),  Life  (5),  Prime  (2),  Spirit
   (4), Time  (3)

Backgrounds:  Arcane 4,  Avatar 2,  Dream 3

Arete:  5		Willpower:  4
Quintessence:  3	Paradox:  N/A

Quote:  "They come.  Those damned little slant-eyes.  Hiding.  I could have 
had the cabbage, but you wouldn't let them would you!  But Joey showed that 
little whore.  Damn dogs eating all my fingers.  The slant-eyes made 'em do 
it.  Dogs never did want my cabbage."

Background:  "Oscar" was once Thomas Peterson, a soldier in the Vietnam war.  
The war took its toll on Thomas' mind, but the return trip home cost him even 
more.  His incessant nightmares, mixed with the hatred and contempt America 
felt for "baby killers in Vietnam" finally forced him to snap.  Thomas 
wandered the streets of New York city, alone and forgotten.
	His life took an enormous change in the winter of 1982.  As Thomas was
digging through a dumpster in search of food, a trio of children saw him and 
started teasing him, calling him "Oscar the Grouch".  At first Thomas tried to
ignore them, until he noticed that one of the children was Asian.  In that 
moment Thomas became Oscar, and his Avatar awakened.  Immediately a squadron 
of Northern Vietnamese soldiers formed out of thin air and slaughtered the 
children as Oscar fled in terror.
	Since that night Oscar has been running.  He knows they are after him,
and that they could catch him at any moment.  He has been running for over 13 
years, and wants more than anything to stop.  But he never will.

Appearance:  A filthy man who looks like he's in his late 60's (he's actually 
52), Oscar always wears his threadbare Army clothes and a full beard.  His 
eyes gleam with fear and madness, and his speech is chaotic and 
incomprehensible.  Oscar is also missing three fingers from his left hand 
(bitten off by dogs in a P.O.W. camp).

Role-Playing Notes:  They're always after you, the slant-eyed bastards; 
Charlie's gonna' get you.  They don't believe you; they're too busy taking 
orders from Charlie over their phones and chemicals in the water.  Just keep 
running, and maybe someday you can escape from them.  The dogs are always 
barking, telling Charlie where you are.  The barks tell everyone about the 
cabbage, but no one seems to care.  The fools, those dogs'll bring Charlie and
then everybody'll have to pay.

Special Notes:  Oscar is unaware that he is a mage, and doesn't realize that 
he can shape reality.  He subconsciously uses his magick to take care of his 
needs, and to create a squad of North Vietnamese soldiers from the Vietnam War
in times of stress (which happens very often).  In addition, wherever Oscar 
goes a person can hear the sounds of dogs barking and the smell of cabbage, 
growing stronger the longer Oscar stays in a single place (making Oscar become
nervous and stressful).  Whenever Oscar become
s upset, nervous, or angry roll his Arete against a difficulty of 6 to create 
the sound of dogs barking (the more successes scored the louder and more 
lasting the barks).  Then, roll Oscar's Arete against a difficulty of 10 EVERY
turn that Oscar remains upset.  For every success scored, one V.C. is created 
within 100 meters of Oscar (they step out of doors, pop up from behind objects
and so on).  The V.C. keep increasing in number, keeping Oscar in a heightened
state of emotional upset.  Finally, Oscar is immune to any attacks caused by 
the Vietnamese (but he doesn't know this, and never would believe it).


Thomas Constantinople
Essence:  Pattern
Nature:  Architect
Demeanor:  Deviant
Tradition:  Marauder (ex-Void Engineer)

STR:   2	CHA:   2	PER:   3
DEX:   2	MAN:   2	INT:   4
STA:   2	APP:   2/0	WIT:   2

Talents:  Alertness 2,  Instruction 3
Skills:  Drive 1,  Research 4,  Technology 3
Knowledges: Astronomy 4,  Computer 3,  Cosmology 2,  Science 4

Spheres:  Correspondence  2 (Computer),  Forces  3 (Electric Socket),  Prime
   2 (Power Meter),  Spirit  3 (Telescope),  Time  5 (Calculator)

Backgrounds:  Allies 2 (A Nephandi and an Orphan),  Avatar 2,  Dream 1

Arete:  5		Willpower:  6
Quintessence:  3	Paradox:  N/A

Quote:  "She's so attractive, swoon.  A person traveling back in time and 
impregnating his own mother with himself wouldn't be incestuous?  Bloik!  
Gimme' me brains back, me poor little head just blew up."

Background:  Thomas was a normal, if slightly odd, Astronomy student learning 
from an English amalgam of Void Engineers.  He was progressing rapidly, 
gaining deeper and deeper understandings of the Void Engineer (and 
Technocratic) paradigm.  Then, while pondering the existence of alternate 
realities based on temporal deviations, Thomas reached a mental block.
	He became more and more desperate to understand the theory he was 
developing; he desired some way to prove it.  Then, while debating this 
problem with a pair of acquaintances over the Internet (one secretly a 
multi-paradigmed Orphan, and the other a vile, manipulative sex-crazed 
Nephandi).  While the Orphan developed mathematical and scientific 
justifications for Thomas' theories, the Nephandi subtly added ideas and 
suggestions to the basic concept, combining into Thomas' new-found 
understanding of the Time Sphere and his re-birth as a Marauder.
	After fleeing the Technocracy and exploring these alternate time lines
(known as Virtuals), Thomas returned to Gaia and began spreading his theories 
and ideas over the Internet once more.  Of course, now his views are much more
twisted, and people can seldom comprehend the strange words and phrases he 
leaves.

Appearance:  A tall, skinny man in his early 20's, Thomas always wears a pair 
of old glasses, t-shirt, jeans, and dirty old sneakers.  Of course, his most 
unusual feature is the fact that the back of his head looks as if the entire 
brain exploded out of it.  Even when this fact is pointed out to him, Thomas 
does not accept or believe in it.

Role-Playing Notes:  You are basically a nice guy who wants to share your 
discoveries with the rest of the world.  While few accept your truths and many
more mock you, you don't care.  You'll show them the grandness that exists in 
other time lines, even if you have to drag the people with you.

Special Notes:  How Thomas's body (let alone mind) work without a brain is a 
gruesome puzzle for others to ponder.  While his Appearance is normally a 2, 
when people know or see the giant bleeding cavity in the back of his it 
becomes a 0.  Thomas IS aware that he is a shaper of reality, and does try to 
convince others in order to reshape the paradigm of reality.  However, while 
Thomas can be lucid, he soon falls into an incoherent series of ramblings 
about time and alternate realities, and Gillian Anderson.


Excratakali
Essence:  Primordial
Nature:  Fanatic
Demeanor:  Fanatic
Tradition:  Marauder/Nephandi (ex-Order of Hermes barabbi)

STR:   4	CHA:   5	PER:   4
DEX:   4	MAN:   5	INT:   3
STA:   5	APP:   1	WIT:   5

Talents:  Alertness 3,  Awareness 5,  Brawl 3,  Dodge 3,  Expression 4,
   Intimidation 4,  Streetwise 5,  Subterfuge 5
Skills:  Firearms 3,  Meditation 3,  Melee 2,  Stealth 3,  Survival 2
Knowledges:  Cosmology 3,  Enigmas 1, Lore (Infernal) 3,  Occult 4

Spheres:  Correspondence  4 (Pentacles),  Entropy  3,  Forces  5,  Life  4,
   Mind  4,  Prime  2,  Spirit  4

Backgrounds:  Arcane 4,  Avatar 2,  Destiny 3,  Dream 2,  Talisman 4

Arete:  7		Willpower:  10
Quintessence:  5	Paradox:  N/A

Quote:  "Women hold the gift of creation.  We hold the gift of the Blessed 
Release.  Life, breath, shit, we release it all.  Should we not also hold the 
key to death?  Should we not also be worshipped as the goddesses we are?  I 
will give you my life, my breath, my shit.  I shall give you the Blessed 
Release."

Background:  Excratakali was once known as Jack Bledsoe, a minor Disciple of 
the Order of Hermes.  In his desire for power and magick, Jack tried to steal 
the might of a demon, but as the demon tried to steal his soul, the ritual 
Jack was using went horribly wrong.  The demon (a succubus) was 
absorbed by Jack's Avatar, and Jack's mind was shattered.
	The merged being, thinking itself to hold the power of a deity, named 
itself Excratakali and proclaimed "her" divinity.  Jack was no more, and 
Excratakali fled the Hermetic cabal to further her own goals.  Excratakali 
began to form a cult of homeless and mentally ill individuals, giving them 
shelter and food.  In addition, Excratakali formed the "Lips of Excratakali" 
(see Talismans above) to prove her feminine nature and increase her power over
the cult.
	Currently, Excratakali is being hunted by both the Hermetic cabal she 
fled from and a group of Nephandi known as the Midnight Cabaret.  How she will
deal with these threats remains to be seen.

Appearance:  Excratakali would be an attractive man, if he wasn't covered in 
dried mixture of human waste, sexual fluids, and menstrual fluids.  In 
addition, Excratakali has brutally attacked offending parts of "her" anatomy.
Excratakali always wears stained and filthy evening gowns over "her" hairy, 
masculine frame.

Role-Playing Notes:  You are salvation and freedom.  You are mother and whore.
The unbelievers, those who doubt you are a deity and question your gender, 
must be shown the Blessed Release and learn to explore themselves for your 
truth.

Special Notes:  The majority of Excratakali's power comes from Jack's merger 
with the demon, and the destruction of his psyche.  Should the demon ever be 
removed (a difficult if not impossible feat), than Excratakali's power will 
drop drastically.


High Programmer 1101 ("Delta")
Essence:  Pattern
Nature:  Fanatic
Demeanor:  Sycophant
Tradition:  Marauder/Iteration X 

STR:   5	CHA:   0	PER:   4
DEX:   5	MAN:   4	INT:   5
STA:   5	APP:   0	WIT:   2

Talents:  All at 5
Skills:  All at 5
Knowledges:  All at 5

Spheres:  Correspondence  5 (Satellite),  Entropy  4 (Diagnostic Scanner),
   Force  5 (Powerpack),  Life  5 (Biomechanical Probe),  Matter  5 (Elixir),
   Mind  4 (Neural Net Computer),  Prime  4 (Primium Disk),  Spirit  5 (THE
   Computer),  Time  4 (Atomic Chronograph)

Backgrounds:  Allies 10 (Iteration X),  Avatar 5,  Destiny 5,  Mentor 10 (THE
   Computer),  Talisman 5 (Cantor Set)

Arete:  9		Willpower:  10
Quintessence:  9	Paradox:  4 Permanent

Quote:  "We are the way of the flesh.  We are the way of the future."

Background:  The origin of the woman who would become Delta is lost in time.  
Her history has been traced to the end Mythic Age, where she helped develop 
the cannons used against the Hermetic Chantries across Europe.  After slowly 
progressing through the ranks of Iteration X, Delta reached a stumbling block.
At first she assumed it was due to the prevailing sexism of the times, but as 
she explored and questioned further she discovered the force that blocked her 
progress.  She found the Computer.
	Once she discovered the Computer and learned it's secret, she was 
drawn (willingly) into the circle of High Programmers and changed forever.  
Now, Delta serves the Computer with the other High Programmers as a model for 
her fellow Iteration X members, assembling the portals and gateways to the 
Umbral realm of Autochtonia, summoning Net Spiders and other spirits for 
Iteration X members' use, and other feats that the rest of the Convention is 
prohibited to explore.  In addition, as a sign of her devotion, Delta (along 
with all other High Programmers) has been assigned a powerful Talisman for her
use (see "Cantor Set Implant", above).

Appearance:  Delta may have been an attractive woman once, but the Cantor Set 
Implant has altered her body so drastically that she looks more repulsive than
attractive.  The Cantor Set causes a third of her body to be "non-existent"; 
the third is actually a combination of areas all along her body that are 
constantly moving and shifting.  Her left hand may be gone one second, and the
next her arm is missing; but whatever parts are missing, the bones, veins, 
etc. are perfectly visible, making her a ghastly sight for many.  Due to 
strange Correspondence alterations, she can still live without a heart, think 
without a brain, and hold items without a hand, but to all others the part 
does not exist.
	Delta either wears a pocket covered lab coat and suit, or else simply 
wanders around in the nude.  

Role-Playing Notes:  We are linked with the Computer.  There is no "I" only 
"We", and we live to serve the Computer for the advancement of ourselves and 
Iteration X.  Those who discover the our true nature must become a High 
Programmer and join us.  In the end, all will become a part of us.

Special Notes:  Delta has permanent paradox due to her Cantor Set Implant, 
heightened attributes, and highly advanced DEI (see "Technocracy: Iteration 
X"), however, she incurs no paradox from Procedures or other willworkings.  
Her use of the Spirit is directly controlled by the Computer, as is she.


Lori
Essence:  Questing
Nature:  Borderline
Demeanor:  Bon Vivant
Tradition:  Marauder (ex-Cult of Ecstasy)

STR:   2	CHA:   3	PER:   2
DEX:   2	MAN:   3	INT:   2
STA:   3	APP:   4	WIT:   3

Talents:  Awareness 1,  Brawl 2,  Dodge 2,  Subterfuge 3
Skills:  Drive 2,  Meditation 1
Knowledges:  Linguistics 1 (English, Swedish),  Medicine 2

Spheres:  Correspondence  2 (Incense),  Forces  3 (Music),  Life  3,  Mind  3,
   Prime  2 (Music),  Time  2

Backgrounds:  Arcane 1,  Avatar 1

Arete:  4		Willpower:  5
Quintessence:  2	Paradox:  N/A

Quote:  "Can't you see?!?!  I don't want to lose you.  I know we just met 
yesterday, but we were meant to be together.  YOU ASSHOLE, CAN'T YOU SEE IT 
WAS DESTINY!!!!  Don't leave me, I don't know what I'd do to myself if you 
ever left me.  I won't let you leave me alone again."

Background:  Laura Kaufman was always a little odd, but not noticeably.  If 
the Cult of Ecstasy mage who Awakened her had known more about who she was, he
would have left her a Sleeper.  For a while, Laura and her mentor had the most
idyllic relationship a couple could hope for, but then she became paranoid and
obsessed with him seeing other women.  He knew it was time to do something 
when she threatened to kill herself if he left her.  Using his magick, the 
Cultist managed to subdue her and escape, sending some social workers to help 
her.
	Lori managed to escape from the Cultist's bonds and flee before the 
workers came to aid her.  Now she wanders from man to man, becoming suicidally
obsessed with her latest relationship.  Woe to the man who shows her a moment 
of compassion or lust.

Appearance:  An attractive red-haired woman, Lori glows with the vibrance of 
life.  She typically wears long-sleeved sweaters and blouses to cover the 
numerous scars along her wrists.  She also tends to wear slacks or skirts, but
NEVER wears jeans.  

Role-Playing Notes:  You fear being alone more than anything.  It seems like 
every man is the same, they just want to use you and abandon you.  But you'll 
make them stay, take them away from the whores and sluts who want to steal 
them away from you.

Special Notes:  Laura Kaufman was a borderline personality long before her 
Awakening.  Since learning the true nature of the universe, Lori has become 
fully enchanted with the hidden world she once only dreamed about.  Her 
magicks let her survive massive amounts of self-inflicted damage, and 
manipulate the wills and emotions of others.  Those she comes into contact 
with are often left as disturbed and irrational as she.


FOLLOWERS/BEASTIES


The Chosen of Excratakali
Nature:  Fanatic
Demeanor:  Bravo

STR:   5	CHA:   0	PER:   3
DEX:   5	MAN:   0	INT:   2
STA:   5	APP:   0	WIT:   2

Talents:  Alertness 3,  Awareness 1,  Brawl 3,  Dodge 3
Skills:  Firearms  2,  Melee 1,  Stealth 2
Knowledges:  Wyrm Lore 2

Backgrounds:  Arcane 1,  Dream 1

Willpower:  6

Quote:  "(GROWL!)  We have seen the truth in the cleansing waters of 
Excratakali.  There is the truth!"

Background:  Two men and one woman have all been transformed into the 
"Chosen".  They serve Excratakali and the Cult with fanatic zeal, partially 
due to their repeated exposure (and subsequent addiction) to the Lips of 
Excratakali.

Appearance:  While each of the Chosen looks different, all are covered in 
dried human filth, the same as their goddess.  They are all also horrible 
disfigured and mutilated, with hideously infected wounds oozing pus and blood 
whenever the Chosen move.

Role-Playing Notes:  You and the rest of the Chosen live to serve the Cult and
embrace yourselves in the Blessed Release.  Excratakali is your goddess and 
her words are mana.  You strongly desire to baptize others into your blessed 
state, but so many refuse.  You must show them the error of their ways.

Special Notes:  Each of the Chosen is actually a Fomor, created by Banes who 
were attracted to the Cult's twisted practices and rituals.  One of the men 
has the following powers and flaws:  Berserker,  Body Barbs (5 additional dice
to Brawl),  Mega Attribute (+1 dot to Strength),  Addiction (must drink from 
the Lips of Excratakali every hour),  Doomed (has 6 months left to live),  
Second Head.  The other man has the following:  Berserker,  Mega Attribute (+2
dots to Strength, Dexterity, and Stamina and one extra wound level),  
Addiction (must drink from the Lips every hour),  Second Head.  Finally, the 
woman has:  Berserker,  Mega Attribute (+1 dot to Strength),  Plasmic Form,  
Addiction (must drink from the Lips every hour),  Second Head.  (See "Freak 
Legion" for more details, or invent your own icky Fomori powers and limits).


Viet-Cong (V.C.)
Nature:  Bravo
Demeanor:  Bravo

STR:   3	CHA:   0	PER:   4
DEX:   4	MAN:   0	INT:   2
STA:   3	APP:   2	WIT:   3

Talents:  Alertness 3,  Brawl 2,  Dodge 3
Skills:  Firearms  3,  Melee 2,  Stealth 3
Knowledges:  None

Willpower:  7

Quote:  [The V.C. never speak, except to scream commands in Vietnamese (the 
language is NOT Vietnamese however, only a gibberish language created from 
Oscar's lack of understanding)]

Background:  The V.C. are creations of Oscar's confused mind.  They do not 
truly exist, and are formed by Oscar's subconscious mind whenever he is under 
severe stress (for any reason).  While they can not hurt him, the V.C. will 
chase after him until he falls from exhaustion into a deep sleep.  While the 
V.C. chase Oscar however, they will not catch him and will attack any and all 
they come across.

Appearance:  A group of Asian teens of both genders, dressed in dark greens, 
browns, and grays.  They always have an angry, menacing look on their face, 
except when they attack and their faces display a hellish glee.  They all 
appear different, but all are armed with AK-47s and knives.

Role-Playing Notes:  (Note for STs:  the V.C. should be made unintelligible by
any means, but are also very ruthless and vile.  They should communicate with 
one another in their incomprehensible language, and attack all nearby 
individuals.  They will only stop chasing after Oscar if other targets become 
available, or if Oscar is allowed to fall unconscious or relax.)

Special Notes:  The V.C. are not human, and may not even be real.  Oscar has 
no control over them, and isn't even aware that he is the cause of their 
existence.  The V.C. seem aware that they can not harm Oscar, and will let him
escape.  The V.C. appear to have no memory between their incarnations, and may
not even be capable of true thought (despite their malicious behavior).


Lightning Roaches
Willpower 2,  Rage 1,  Gnosis 1,  Power 15
Charms:  Lay Eggs (Special, see below),  Lightning Bolts,  Materialize,  Short
   Out,  Tracking

Materialized Stats:  Dexterity 3,  Dodge 2,  7 Health Levels (but no Stamina
   to soak!)  (Total Power Cost:  5 Points)

Quote:  "Screech!" <ZAP!>

Background:  Lightning Roaches are bizarre pests that come to Gaia to feed and
reproduce.  They use their Tracking Charm to find locate live electrical 
systems, circuits, and wires in the material world.  Once located, the Roach 
materializes and feeds.  After feeding for a long enough period of time, the 
roach will deposit its eggs and return to the Umbra, to re-start the cycle.  
Many Sleepers (and Mages) will find one piece of electrical equipment after 
another become useless as the roaches eat more and more electrical pieces.  
Oftentimes, an entire apartment building will become infested, as the roaches 
stay near a large source of food.
	It is only a matter of time before the Technocracy and Traditions 
discover these bizarre creatures, but by then it may be too late.  Of course, 
Doctor Vorstead (see "Dr. Vorstead", by me) could warn them, if he wasn't so 
busy with his latest project.

Appearance:  Basically, a normal little roach that can unleash lightning from 
its mandibles.  While that is how they appear materialized, in the Umbra they 
look like roaches composed of a "black lightning", with jagged electrical 
streaks in place of their antennae and legs.

Role-Playing Notes:  Eat.  Shit.  Reproduce.  Zap the hell out of anyone who 
actively tries to disturb any of the above.

Special Notes:  For every 5 minutes that a roach can spend undisturbed and 
eating a machine, it gains 1 point of power.  Once the roach's power is at 15,
then the roach begins developing an "egg".  Once the roach absorbs an 
additional 15 points the egg is ready to be laid in the Umbra and hatch with 0
power (the egg-laying process takes under 10 minutes).


Cyrens  (a.k.a. "Letter People")
Willpower 7,  Rage 3,  Gnosis 10,  Power 30
Charms:  Create Object or Control Electrical Systems (occasionally both), 
   Drain (Special, see below),  Influence,  Mind Speech

Background:  Where Cyrens come from is anyone's guess.  They've been around 
for centuries however, feeding off of lonely individuals wherever they may be.
In the past Cyrens were known as the "Letter People", and would send series of
letters to lonely individuals, slowly insinuating themselves into the other's 
life, seducing them with friendship and love.  While the Cyren would feed, it 
would further insinuate itself into the target's life, until the target would 
become obsessed with the Cyren.
	Once this point was reached, the Cyren would leave, cutting all 
communications with the target and finding a new source of sustenance.  In 
their wake they left shattered hopes and dreams, not-understanding the frail 
nature of human desire.  And now that they have discovered the Digital Web, 
they are beginning to arrive in the hundreds.  Already, three of the Mad Boys 
have become enraptured by a single Cyren, each thinking the Cyren to be a 
separate individual talking to them alone.

Appearance:  In the Umbra, Cyrens appear as gender-less, impossibly narrow 
humanoids made of communication.  They can't be seen in the normal sense of 
the word, but are instead "felt"; an observer can perceive the details and 
features of a Cyren, but can't hope to describe them (an interesting irony 
considering what they are made of).

Role-Playing Notes:  Humans are such strange creatures, give them some of your
time and feed from them in return.  When you desire some new flavor of 
communication, new thoughts, emotions, expressions, and events, simply leave 
and find them.  Eventually, another Cyren (or someone else) will stumble 
across the person you just left, so there is no need for concern.

Special Notes:  While Cyrens don't truly understand (or appreciate) human 
emotions and feelings, they do know how to manipulate them.  By combining 
their charms of Influence and Mind Speech, they "read" men and women and 
create individuals based on the target's desires and interests, and make the 
target come back for more.  Some use simple writings between friends, while 
others use methods such as phone-sex and erotic e-mail (by either Create 
Objects, to make a postal letter and envelope, or by Control Electronic 
Systems, to make an e-mail account, telephone voice, and so forth).  For every
ten minutes the target spends either reading or writing to the Cyren, the 
Cyren gains three points of power.  Once the Cyren tires of the target, it 
simply leaves without warning (but not always) and is never heard from again.


The Enchanted Toys of Mistress Darke

STR:   3	CHA:   0	PER:   2
DEX:   4	MAN:   0	INT:   2
STA:   4	APP:   0	WIT:   2

Talents:  Alertness 3,  Awareness 1,  Dodge 2
Skills:  None
Knowledges:  Lore (Human Erogenous Zones) 5,  Lore (Human Sexuality) 5

Powers:  See below

Willpower:  8		Quintessence:   10

Health Levels:  2 for small toys, 5 for larger ones

Background:  Mistress Darke was a promising Hollow One Adept who had a 
penchant for... kinky things.  Among her possessions were scores of sexual 
toys of every design, size, and shape.  Strap-on dildos, spiked leather 
underwear, and other items that would make a Cult of Ecstasy Master blush.  
Darke was also fond of collecting lovers; she had made it her goal to explore 
the sexual offerings of the most skilled (magickally and otherwise) members of
the Traditions, and even the Technocracy, Nephandi, and Marauders.  It was 
with her attempt to score with the last that her desire made her downfall.
	The Marauder, known as Mac Daddy Player D, was well known among the 
local Cultists and Hollow Ones as being a harmless master of human flesh.  
Darke wanted him more than anything.  And when she finally found him, he 
wasn't impressed.  However, instead of leaving her disappointed, the Mad One 
turned her vast collection of toys into something more... user friendly.  
Darke was literally laughed out of her chantry as her toys tried to rape her, 
but then her chantry mates also fled as the toys turned on them.
	The chantry house was abandoned by the Hollow Ones, and Darke's 
collection was left behind.  Currently, the local Cult of Ecstasy cabal is in 
a state of negotiations to seize the house and its contents to convert the 
building (built on a powerful Node) into a Pleasure Dome.  How things will 
turn out remain to be seen, as Darke wants her things back.

Appearance:  There are 87 items that compose the Enchanted Toys, and they run 
the full expanse.  Full bodysuits of studded leather, 14" long double headed 
vibrators, and so on.  All roll, walk, or propel themselves in any means that 
they can.

Role-Playing Notes:  (Note to STs:  the Toys are all unique, free-willed 
individuals.  However, while they all have little quirks (such as the leather 
bodysuit's playful games of "hide-and-go-seek" before and after sex), they 
exist to please the lusts of others.  They often group up in numbers of five 
or more on a lone individual, totally overwhelming their moral and cultural 
inhibitions.)

Special Rules:  The toys have a few effects they can achieve.  By rolling 
their Willpower against a difficulty of 5, they can heal themselves, a 
difficulty of 6 can heal others.  By rolling their Willpower against a 
difficulty equal to their opponent's Willpower, the Toys can overcome the 
target's inhibitions.  If the Toys group up on a single person, they can 
totally overcome his restraints and fill him with carnal cravings.



