From nv91-asa@drax.nada.kth.se Mon Apr 25 17:41:49 1994
Date: Mon, 25 Apr 1994 16:52:36 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@drax.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Math Space
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9404251636.B21787-0100000@drax.nada.kth.se>

Just a random idea: Math Space

As long as people have studied math and geometry, they have created
thoughtforms. These forms are accessible in Math Space, an abstract space
reachable using Mind and Mathematics.  The most skilled mathematicians can
access it mentally on a subconscious level, almost like a mage. Normal
mathematicians have to solve their problems using tools like pen and
paper, computer or (if they are really good) in their heads. 

To reach Math Space, the mage concentrates, and uses Mind 1 to mentally 
transfer his senses into the realm of abstraction. This "place" will look 
as a featureless, infinite whiteness without anything. To create objects, 
the mage must define them. If the mathemagician successfully defines the 
object, without inconsistencies and errors, it will become real in Math 
Space. How it will look depends on the type of object, the mage and the 
perceiver. Some objects, like a circle, will look quite the same to all 
onlookers, but a Hilbert Space will look very different to different 
people. All objects appear in perfect, almost hallucinogenic clarity.

After something has been defined, it can be used. The mage may mentally
reach into the object, change it, combine objects into new patterns, allow
them to interact or discard them. A mage may define a system of
differential equations, and then study their solutions in any
representation. If something have been defined earlier, it will always be
possible to use. 

However, defining something isn't always easy. The object must be defined
clearly and without inconsistencies, both internal and external. This is
done using intelligence + mathematics. The number of successes required
depends on how complex the object is (a set is simpler than a
Banach-space) and the difficulty on how hard it is to envision (a sphere
is easy, a category much harder). A botch means the mage have created a
paradox or inconsistency; this results in paradox for the mage as the
structures of the realm bend and tear. This paradox is however local to
the mage in Math Space (like in the Digital Web), but is retained there.
Paradox is a dangerous force in Math Space, since it will make the results
unreliable. Paradox may turn the solution of an equation erroneous, and a
backlash may destroy structures. Quiet is also nasty here, since the mages
perceptions shift deeper into the realm. There is a risk that the mage
forgets about the outside world and become trapped in Math Space. 

Each mathematically literate person has his own part of Math Space. They 
link together at a fundamental level, perhaps due to the Universal 
Unconscious, or some underlying part of reality. It is possible for a 
mathemagician to reach other persons space. This requires Mind 3, as the 
mage seeks his way through the infinite whiteness looking for the 
structures of another mind. To make it easier, there are many methods and 
objects which has been reused by generations (like differentiation or 
groups), that they provide links between many minds. A person inside Math 
Space doesn't look like anything, and is just signified by the acts of 
definition and change that it creates around itself.

There may be beings existing in Math Space, but of what kind they might
be, nobody knows. Some claim self-organizing systems and paradox spirits
lurk at infinity, searching for signs of activity they could use. Others
talk about structures and object which are completely alien and somehow
try to be expressed in the physical world by mathematicians and mages who
perceive them. Another strange phenomena is that when a process or object
has been defined, it often seems to take a life on its own and try to
apply itself to other objects without intervention of its creator. This
can quickly create complex chain-reactions, which result in strange
fractal systems and objects. 

Math Space is studied mainly in the traditions by Order of Hermes (who
thinks it is near the realm of the Platonic Forms), Sons of Ether and
Virtual Adepts.  The Technocracy is very interested in it, and Iteration X
and Void Engineers spend much time studying in it. Especially Iteration X
loves its austere beauty, and uses it for the creation of new algorithms. 

Axioms:

Correspondence:-5 There is no space, no dimensions, no distance in
Math Space, but by defining it a mage can use it. However, regardless how
much space (including infinite) the mage defines, he cannot reach any
other "place" without Mind. 

Entropy: -5 There is no randomness, no decay or disorder, unless defined. 

Forces: -5 There are no forces here. 

Matter: -5 There is no matter here. 

Mind: 1 Mental processes function normally here, but with an extra clarity
and exactness. Mind 2 doesn't work well, since all emotions seems to be
somewhat shielded. Illusions can be created, but they can also be revealed
by using mathematics. Everything that exists here is created by Mind, and 
Mind replaces all pattern magick (Prime is not needed)

Life: -5 No life exists in this realm. 

Spirit: -2 Spirits are hard to summon here, and creating portals into Math
Space have proven very difficult. 

Prime: 0 Prime functions as normal, but the mathematical objects only
exist as patterns in minds, so they does not contain much prime. 

Time: 0 Time functions normally. 



 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




