
                          MEMETIC ENGINEERS

By Andrew Weitzman

Description

      The Memetic Engineers are the newest--and most unusual--of the
Methodologies in the Technocracy.  They are masters of a special form of
thought-crafting.  They study ideas, concepts, and beliefs as living
beings: autonomous creatures capable of evolution and mutation.

      In the late 50's, an amalgam of New World Order technomancers
latched onto an experimental theory known as Cybernetics.  This theory
held that modeling computers on the patterns of living creatures was the
best path to artificial intelligence.  The originators of Cybernetics--
Virtual Adepts mixed in with a few Progenitors--pushed their
theory as an alternative to the mechanistic world-view of Iteration X.
A formal presentation of the theory to the Technocracy Administrators was
given in an October Symposium in 1959.

      Pressure from Iteration X forced a temporary disavowal of
Cybernetics; though not formally banned, it was tinged with just enough
stigma to make it a dubious line of research.  Only two factions carried
on with forwarding the goals of Cybernetics.  One was the Virtual Adepts
after they broke with the Union in 1961.  They currently foster interest
in the new technique of Artificial Life, a revised version of Cybernetics.

      The other was the amalgam from the New World Order.  Sent as observers
from the Convention, they were struck by the brilliance of the new theory.
They began considering how certain of its tenets could be applied to the
world of the mind.  Computer programs and ideas are both information.
Cannot, they reasoned, both be manipulated in similar ways? The amalgam
approached the leaders of their Convention for permission to adapt Cybernetics
for the purposes of the NWO.  Tenative approval was given, though the
activities of the researchers were carefully monitored.

      A breakthrough was quickly made: memetics.  The researchers
found that ideas act in ways similar to biological processes.   They
can replicate, evolve, and even "feed" through activities which support
their existence.  These were dubbed "memes"--the mental equivalent of
genes.  Through extensive research, methods of manipulation and
breeding customised memes were discovered.  Very precise paradigm shifts
became possible.  Memetic engineering was born.

      New World Order was overjoyed.  This new field of mind-magick
promised limitless advantages in their struggle to define static reality.
The relatively crude techniques of propoganda were obsolete, hammers to be
replaced by the scalpel of memetics.  Swaying the Masses would be child's
play.  On the strength of these hopes, the researchers were granted formal
Methodology status as the Memetic Engineers.

      At first, things went well.  The Memetic Engineers, alongside
their fellows in the Ivory Tower Methodology, expanded the NWO's power
through meme-crafting.  A particular specialty of theirs was the creation
of counter-memes designed to attack the paradigms of Technocracy enemies.
One notorious example was the Infernal Music meme, aimed at the Cult of
Ecstasy; the notion that rock music is a source of the demonic has been a
constant thorn in the side of the Ecstatics.  More recent examples include
the Ritual Satanic Abuse (devastating to the Verbena) and Net.Pedophile
memes.

      The Memetic Engineers remain valued members of New World Order.
Unfortunately, unforseen problems have cropped up.  The senior meme-mages
show signs of a dangerous relativism; though supportive of the
Technocracy's goals, many refuse to condemn the Council of Nine mysticks out
of hand.  They see the paradigms of the Traditions as a rich source of
memes.  Quaint, outmoded...but still useful.  Some radicals whisper that
some may even be worthy of preservation.

      Another suspect practise is the liberal use of spirit-tech.  Memetic
Engineers have a far higher tolerance for the Sphere of Spirit than the
rest of the Union.  This is encouraged by their peculiar theories on the
relationship between Mind and Spirit.  The NWO has to constantly crack
down on the overuse of dimensional science.  Other Conventions have been
heard to call for a purge to prevent a repeat of the Virtual Adept and Son
of Ether fiascos.

      Then there are the incidents of Memetic Engineers going Wyld.  Three
of the original amalgam became Marauders.  One of the reality deviants was
terminated, but the other two escaped into the Deep Umbra.  Worrying
stories have filtered back from Void Engineer scouts about Realms composed
of thought gone out of control...

Philosophy

      Ideas are alive.  Some are mere intellectual versions of DNA,
content to be expressed as traits in the minds of humanity.  Others are
like simple bacteria.  The most complex may form colonies...ecologies...
whole Realms of thought.  All can be domesticated as our Progenitor
comrades tamed the dog and ox so many millenia ago.  Through memetic
engineering, we will provide the Masses with a healthy mental landscape
free of pollution.

      Mind and Spirit are one.  Umbra, alternate dimension--these terms are
misleading.  We Enlightened are capable of attuning ourselves to
Meta-Reality, the world of thought which permeates the material universe.
Understanding of Meta-Reality is crucial to memetics; without it we are
blind, cursed with working with second-hand versions of the mental world.
The greatest weakness of the Union is its refusal to accept this fact.

[A note on Meta-Reality: to a Memetic Engineer, the Umbral Worlds are
actually a universal collective unconscious.  The mind resides in both
realities at the same time; the Gauntlet is a defense mechanism put out by
living beings to prevent sensory chaos.  A mage who "steps sideways" is
simply tuning out one existence in favor of another.  The reasons why such
actions make mages disappear is contentious--their best explanation is
that the process causes the rest of the world to ignore the mage as a
physical being.  Mind magick is seen to work with the individual; Spirit
operates in a wider sense.]

Organization

      The Memetic Engineers are organized in the usual manner of an
academic Methodology.  Technicians work in a variety of research labs and
workshops, perfecting memetic science.  Administrators head the
departments, under a Triumvirate known as "Meme Control".  Field Operatives
operate in scientific task forces--usually on expeditions into Meta-Reality.
Others perform anthropological research of Sleeper and Magi alike. The
atmosphere is collegial, almost chummy; the small size of the Metholdology
(about 400 people) contributes to the sense of friendly competition.

Chantry

      The Memetic Engineers maintain a small Horizon Realm known as
MemeSpace.  Mind and Spirit Effects are considered coincidental there,
allowing them to perform advanced experiments in memetic theory.  The
interior of the Realm resembles a vast white space; thoughts manifest as
objects or entities.

      A variety of mundane Constructs are located in the psychology
departments of major universities.  There are also Memetic Engineer sites
on the Digital Web; exploration Collectives are frequently established on
long-lived Dream Realms.

Initiation

      Memetic Engineers are usually drawn from Awakened members of New
World Order.  Of course, there is a program in place to recruit talent from
such fields as psychology.  The Methodology has Associates schooled in memetic
theory placed at key universities; students who enroll in their classes
are scanned for Awakened potential.

Sphere: Mind.  Almost all train in Spirit as well.

Common Foci

      Hypnosis: though considered primitive, Memetic Engineers often
employ this technique as a focus for their Mind magick.  It has the
advantage being almost completely coincidental

      Lucid Dreaming: common focus for Spirit magic.  Memetic Engineers go
to sleep and "wake up" in their dreams; they become aware that they are in
a dreaming state.  Through this they can direct their dreams, interacting
with Meta-Reality.

      Other foci include psychological theory, computer models, etc.

Acolytes: pupils, psychiatrists, university faculty

Concepts: psychologist, sociologist, anthropologist

Stereotypes

Iteration X: Superb in their field, they are limited in their scope.  What
use is replacing the flesh if the mind it houses remains a mystery?   Besides,
their belief system is based on outmoded determinism.  Too Fifties for our
taste.

     "These theoreticians represent a serious threat, even if they are
loyal.   Their flagrant abuse of dimensional science negates the entire
purpose of the Union.  Strict supervision recommended."

New World Order: We are forever grateful to our parent Construct.  Without
them, we would be mired in the Dark Ages of mind science.  Still, they
concentrate overmuch on control instead of investigation.  A little more
open-mindedness would be welcome.

      "Among our most valuable assets.  Unfortunately, their ideology
remains troublesome.  Re-education programs are in place to contain any
damage."

Progenitors: These masters of DNA understand us most.  Many aspects of
memetics were inspired by their work.  Together we will reshape both
Reality and Meta-Reality into Utopia.

      "A fascinating adaptation of our theories into another field.  And
they are certainly easier to stomach than those Men in Black.  One of New
World Order's better ideas."

Syndicate: Tragically limited in their fixation on money; they impoverish
the memetic ecology of the Masses through their banal vision of popular
culture.  Nonetheless, they are to be admired for their mastery of various
media.  We've found their advertising techniques to be effective
disseminators of our work.

      "Pushy bastards.  They refuse to understand that the Masses cannot
be given too much food for thought.  It tends to cause indigestion."

Void Engineers: Completely wrong in their approach.  They seek to define
Meta-Reality in the physical, a futile endeavor.  At least their scout
reports allow us to focus our investigations.

       "And the other Constructs are nervous about us.  What about those
jokers?  You won't get one of those hoity-toity renegades on my ship,
thankyouverymuch."

Akashic Brotherhood: There is much to be learned from their creed of
self-awareness.  However, the relentless introspection of their philosophy
hamstrings their efforts against the Union.

       "They seek to disrupt the Way with a confusion of Paths.  One need
only seek balance of Self to ignore their prattling."

Celestial Chorus: A fine subject of study!  Examining their rigid
belief-structure teaches one the powers of dogma and blind faith.  We
often adapt their memes for our own purposes.

      "Souless infidels who profane the One with their subtle lies!"

Cult of Ecstacy: Fairly mundane.  Ascension through personal pleasure is a
rather tired meme; there are more interesting variations.  One cannot,
however, dismiss their power.  Even cliches have great allure.

      "Watch out for those Greyfaces, man.  Tipper's in their pocket."

Dreamspeakers: We sometimes meet such mages in our forays into Meta-Reality.
Extensive interrogation has added a treasure-trove of information to our
files on ancient memes.  We find them quite useful when operating in less
advanced cultures.

      "Avoid them if you can; they can turn your own mind against you.
Yet, they may be a faint spark within the darkness of the Technocracy..."

Euthanatos: Dangerous.  Many of these experts on entropy have destroyed
our most carefully groomed memes.  Either use robust idea-structures
against them, or let the operatives of the Union take direct action.

      "We are not impressed.  All things may suffer the Good Death.  Ideas
included."

Order of Hermes: They had the first glimmering of our science in the
Pythagorean and Platonic schools.  They have not advanced since then.
Their paradigm does bear analysing for its lessons on occult memes in
European culture.

      "These fools trifle with the Mysteries as if they were kitchen
appliances.  Strike them down!"

Verbena: Another outmoded paradigm.  They do make good boogeymen, though.

      "If one of those mind-warpers gets in athame range, I'll decorate
the grove with his entrails."

Sons of Ether: Stupid, misguided traitors.  They claim to be Scientists,
but run away from any advancement that contradicts their antique theories.

      "Hah!  The short-sighted idiots delve into Science without any
sense of taste.  All they see are tools, instead of the work that they
produce."

Virtual Adepts: We sympathise somewhat with their objections to the Union;
our founders suffered many of the same persecutions.  However, we have
learned to work within the system instead of razing it to the ground.

      "Five bucks says these thoughthackers are going to be on the
Council's side in a few years.  Until then, keep on your toes.  They ain't
fighters, but they can do a lot of damage when they try."

Hollow Ones: The subject of our ongoing study of the post-modern memes in
society.  They also provide excellent experimental specimens.

      "Who?"


MEMETIC ENGINEER PROCEDURES

Meme Sample (Mind 3, Matter 2 or 4, Prime 2): designed to preserve the
thoughts in physical form.  The Memetic Engineer initiates a brief mental
link into a dreaming mind, then forms material objects based on the images
found in the scan.  Depending on the level of Matter employed, this can be
anything from a crude figurine to a printed abstract.   This procedure
allows a memeticist to examine potential memes at leisure.

Meme Vector (Mind 2): a basic form of memetic engineering.  The caster
chooses an object or place which has connections to a particular meme that
is to be reinforced.  A simple thought or emotion is imprinted through
Mind.  Though unsophisticated, this use of Resonance is a powerful tool in
the Memetic Engineer arsenal.  Doubly so when the "carrier" object used is
crafted via Meme Sample.

Meme Hack (Entropy 1, Mind 4): an advanced level of memetics.  Users of
this procedure analyse a situation to see whether it is conducive to the
spread of a desire meme.  Mind then writes the meme as a impulse in a key
person who can best spread the meme.  A common application is injecting a
meme into political rally.  The Memetic Engineer senses which speaker or
delegate has the best chance of communicating ideas to the rest of the
assembly, then "primes the pump" with a telepathic suggestion.

MemeCraft (Mind 5, Spirit 5): one of the sources of the Memetic Engineers'
power.  This procedure enables a mage to weave ephemera in ways that turn
abstract memes into spirit objects.  Mind implants a psyche that is the meme
incarnate.  Such artificial spirits are released into the Dream Realms,
programmed to wander the sleeping minds of the Masses.  Spreading itself
like a bacteria, these "memetic agents" spread the ideas manifested in
their forms to thousands of Sleepers.  A variant on this procedure breeds
spirits which attack the spontaneous memes of Dream Realms.


--
+++++++++++++
Andrew Weitzman      a_weitz@alcor.concordia.ca  
Writer extraordinaire for alt.devilbunnies
"The Sicilians have a saying: 'Make friends with your enemies or kill 
them.'  Which would you prefer?"--Lieutenant Giardello, _Homicide: Life 
on the Street_
