From: Tommy the Terrorist <u58563@uic.edu>
Newsgroups: rec.arts.sf.written,rec.arts.sf.science
Subject: Re: Tipler's Version of Fermi Paradox and Von Neumann Probes
Date: 25 Apr 1996 09:08:42 GMT
Organization: Dis
Distribution: world
NNTP-Posting-Host: e046.gene.uic.edu
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-Newsreader: Nuntius 2.0.4_68K
X-XXMessage-ID: <ADA4A83E38032191@e046.gene.uic.edu>
X-XXDate: Thu, 25 Apr 1996 09:55:42 GMT

Once you get into the fraudulent-universe theory (i.e. that aliens are
concealing their transmissions, altering the star patterns, and so on),
well, why stop there?

   Working with mice is a psychologically *bad* thing to do.  I recommend
that if you have the option to avoid it that you seriously consider doing
so.  When you look at a pregnant mouse with her pups, somehow it gets
confused with how a pregnant human looks with her child, and sometimes
it's not certain which looks more like the other.  You see them in their
little cages, wandering around, and if you open one up, it usually seems
like they can't even *conceive* of Life Outside The Cage.  You transfer
them from cage to cage and how do they explain it?  And in the end, you
judge them, and you slay them, and how can they but be certain that there
is one God and that he is evil beyond their imagination.  That there are
terrors that they were not meant to know.

   So how do you work?  How do you live?  How many people are in your
little "cage" with you?  You imagine yourself wandering through
three-dimensional reality... but how do you know that this is not a
fraud?  How do you know that you aren't just a mouse in a cage, with
perhaps a few tubes set up like in a pet owner's gerbil mansion so that
you can wander from cage to cage, meeting with each little set of animals
consigned to those quarters?
   How do you know that there is really something three streets over? 
How do you know that the strangers you see on the street are anything but
crude simulacra?  How do you know that you are anything but the subject
of an experiment for purposes beyond your comprehension, and surely less
important than its effect upon you?  How do you know how that experiment
will end?
   Have you ever felt like there was an audience just behind you?  Have
you ever felt like "the props men screwed up" and left something in your
house that wasn't supposed to be there?  Have you ever had a dream that
something so horrible had happened that you couldn't remembered it?  Or
had a day pass and not know what had happened, and wondered whether some
one or some thing spent it interrogating you and changing some of the
facts?  Have you ever SEEN the inexplicable --- and found yourself
forgetting it, over and over again, because it just didn't fit in with
anything you thought was possible?  Have you ever wondered how it is that
(for instance, here in cage "Chicago") the seasons keep starting at May 1
for summer and November 1 for winter and lasting exactly six months each,
year after year after year?
   Have you ever found yourself looking at something odd and muttering
"More cutbacks at the animal care facility..."

   I don't claim to believe all this yet.  When I do, I'll be crazy.
