From: thanatos@flowbee.interaccess.com (Timothy Toner)
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: MAGE:  Mr. Jones
Date: 17 Sep 1994 06:44:02 GMT
Organization: InterAccess Co.
Reply-To: thanatos@interaccess.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: flowbee.interaccess.com

Not only a Mage character, but one with an interesting idea.  Feedback
welcome, and a cookie to the first person who can tell me where this 
guy came from.


Name:  Mr. Jones    Tradition:  Euthanatos ??barrabi??
Essence:  Pattern   Nature:  Architect  Demeanor:  Deviant
Attributes:
Strength: 3    Charisma: 4         Perception: 4
Dexterity: 3   Manipulation: 5     Intelligence: 4
Stamina: 5     Appearance: 3       Wits: 5
Abilities:
Talents             Skills              Knowledges
Alertness:  3       Ettiquette 2        Cosmology 4
Athletics: 2        Meditation 5        Law       4
Awareness: 4        Stealth    3        Medicine  5
Intimidation: 4     Survival   4        Occult    5
Intuition: 3        Psychoanalysis 5    Psychology 5
Subterfuge: 4       Research:  3
Artistic Expression (Cooking): 5
Advantages:
Spheres:
Correspondence: 2   Life: 3        Prime: 5
Entropy: 5          Mind: 3        Spirit: 4
Forces: 3           Matter: 4      Time: 2
Backgrounds:
Avatar 3, Arcane 4, Resources 4, Dream 4
Arete: 7  Willpower: 10
Quintessence: 18 (Max. 34, See below)   Paradox: 3
 
Merits: Iron Will, Eidetic Memory
Flaws:  Overconfident, Hunted
 
History:  As the Arcane 4 will clearly indicate, very little if
anything is known about "Mr. Jones."  He appears to be an
American, with black hair, soft brown eyes, a piercing smile, and
a self-assured Midwestern accent.  For someone of his potentcy,
none of his fellow Euthanatos know of him, which leads many to
believe that he is indeed a barrabi, a Euthanatos who sold his
soul for power and immortality.  It is rumored that he has spent
much time in meditation, and has only resurfaced recently to put
forth his master plan.
     Until recently, Mr. Jones owned a picturesque estate, lost
in the English countryside.  He obtained it for a pittance, as
the previous owners died under mysterious circumstances, and the
inheritor had to sell the property quickly, or face ruination. 
It was in this house that Mr. Jones conducted his bizarre
experiments in life after death.  He took on the role of a serial
killer, picking off victims he would encounter, seemingly at
random.  Often, he would being his prey home, where he would then
torture them for days, until the precise moment arrived, when he
would twist the knife, and end it all.  The entire ordeal was
recorded for future study on a variety of hidden cameras.  He
would then bury the victims in a neat row.
     His predations on the local populace could not go unnoticed,
however, but before the Technocracy could strike, a policeman
investigating reports that a dead body was found on the grounds
blew the case wide open.  The NWO moved too slowly, thinking the
nosy policeman would be the final victim.  Instead, Mr. Jones
allowed himself to be captured, and turned his case into a media
circus.
     After convincing the courts that he was insane, he then
entered a period of intense meditation.  During the next nine
years, he was sent from hospital to hospital.  Wherever he went,
death and madness soon followed.  All the while, he never spoke. 
Instead, he would scratch out ravings about his research, and why
it didn't work.  Often, he would fixate on a single aspect of a
murder, such as the look in the right eye of victim #34, or the
color of the tie of Victim #12 as it soaked up his own bile.
     Finally, after arriving at the Ravenswood Sanitorium, he
broke his silence, and spoke to a doctor.  He convinced her that
he was the Prince of Darkness, and manipulated half the staff to
perform various acts of murder, suicide, and torture on
themselves and their patients.  The last words he scribbled,
before he escaped with the good doctor, was a slip of paper that
simply read, "The Better Death."  When the page was smuggled out
of the hands of the technocracy, and into the possession of a
group of Euthanatos, the words caused two to go completely mad on
the spot.  The remainder seemed unable to talk of it, though they
have done everything in their power to stop Mr. Jones.  Whn one
of the Euthanatos who had seen the paper was asked if Jones was
barrabi, she replied, "I don't even think the Nephandi would have
him."
     Mr. Jones and Dr. Sevrens are currently being pursued by
Detective Detweiler, the only man apparently immune to the
Arcane.  He will read an article about a murder, and see the
marks of Jones all over it, prompting the hunt to continue.  The
obsession of the Hunt, however, has permanently warped
Detweiler's mind, and he truly believes Jones is Satan.  Anyone
telling him otherwise must face his .44 and his True Faith 7.
 
Quote: (Transcript of a session between Mr. Jones and Dr. M.
Wellbey, NWO)
     Wellby:  A Euthanatos barrabi?  Isn't that a tad redundant?
     Jones:  No, but you are.
     Wellby:  Hgrrkkk!
     [Note: M. Wellby terminated 921107.  Unable to reclone.]
 
New Rotes:
     Your Own Private Idaho (Mind 4, Correspondence 2):  This
rote works primarily on the mentally insane, allowing the mage to
reshape their psychosis into something unique and significant. 
For instance, the mage could induce someone with schizophrenia to
manifest a specific delusional state.  Repeated applications of
this ability in the inmates of an asylum can induce them to
create a consensual reality different than the one outside their
door.
 
Unlock the Magick (Mind 3, Prime 1, Time 2):  Useful primarily to
induce Obsessive/compulsive disorders in normally sane people, a
mage hooks the Prime 1 Rush effect to the performance of some
specific future action.  Thus, when someone writes their name, a
rush of quintessence is received.  A mage can also make the
Compulsion go psychotic by linking it to a thought, such as
suicide or murder.
 
Rattle (Mind 3, Entropy 2, Time 2):  A mage using this rote on an
unawakened being can make them greatly uncomfortable by reading
their mind, predicting an event, over and over, or causing
something generally odd to happen.  This rote is intensely useful
in the art of Awakening a sleeper, or rattling the cage of a
drone working for the Technocracy.
 
The Better Death (???):  Not exactly a Rote, but instead a
powerful philosophy which permeates the darkest corners of
Euthanatos philosophy.  Many Euthanatos become aware, as Arete
grows, that the Good Death is little more than a cosmic crap-
shoot.  One is merely ending a life so that new possibilites can
be freed up by that death.  But what if there was a more
efficient means of harvesting?  What if one could construct a
Device which would ensure that the soul would be properly
refined?  Enter the Better Death.
     The Better Death is a belief that the multitude of lives
that one must go through before Ascension can be condensed into a
single life, a single act.  Certain souls, with similar
properties, and thus following similar paths, can be condensed
into one Oversoul, which then has all impurities burned away in
the act of death.  The result is simple:  a child will be born
that is wholly Awakened, and a heartbeat from Ascension.
     Many Euthanatos who dabble in serial killing strike upon
this idea subconsciously.  Instead of choosing victims who are
not using their lives productively, the Euthanatos picks victims
who share common characteristics, and kill them in certain ways,
linking each death and each soul.  Most, however, do not go
beyond this stage.  To do so would require a leap of faith, one
which often tosses the Euthanatos into a dark abyss.
     This new notion states that 10 unproductive lives are worth
as much as 1 productive one.  If one could ensure that 1
productive life could come about by killing and utterly
destroying 10 lives, it would be worth it.  Thus, the Euthanatos
does not "recycle" the souls she kills with the Good Death. 
Instead, she stores them, or uses them to make a Device known as
a Soul Forge, which melts the soul and burns out redundancies of
other souls.  Thus, the expereinces and possibilities of 10
lifetimes are smelted into 1 soul, which is then reincarnated.
     Many Euthanatos find the idea repugnant, to say the least. 
Condemning 10 to die forever to ensure the Ascension of 1 is
horrific.  They argue that some of the souls which must be
harvested have not yet completeled their usefulness.  Still, in a
world plagued with overpopulation, and caught in a nasty downward
spiral, those who adhere to the Better Death find solace in
thinking that a few less lives reincarnated might be best, if one
could increase the quality of those being born.
     The Better Death often takes decades to properly cast.  Not
only must the victims be carefully selected, they must also be
harvested in the right way, at the right time.  Any flaw in the
overall design, and the Soul Forge rejects the soul.  The
Euthanatos then must figure out what went wrong, and hopes that
he gets it right next time.  All victims must share some common
properties, but at the same time, must offer something new to the
mix, without being redundant.
     The Capstone is the final soul in the Soulforge, the
specially selected soul who will be refined, purified, and
transformed utterly.  The Euthanatos must have this entity in
mind when the Rote begins.  An application of Time 2 will assist
in predicting a future creature's attributes, to make less of a
guessing game out of it.
     Several Euthanatos who have gone truly mad in the
application of this believe choose themselves as the Capstone. 
In that case, they must Awaken a Euthanatos, whose first act of
magick, then, is the Good Death on the preparer.  This sends the
Avatar of the Euthanatos into the Soulforge, where it is
supercharged.  Somewhere in the world, at that moment, a child of
inordinate power is born.
     There is rumored to exist in the ranks of the Euthanatos a
sect which has dedicated its existence to eradicating the spawn
of the Better Death, freeing up the stolen energy by seeking
children born of power.  Like all fanatics, often their judgement
becomes clouded.
     System:  For every 10 victims successfully killed and
captured, a creature can be born with an automatically Awakened
Avatar with a rating of 1.  Euthanatos using this power can
enhance their own Avatars with the same ratio of 1 for every 10
killed.  Thus, a Euthatos with an Avatar of 3 who puts 34 souls
into the soulforge, and then inserts himself, will be born with
an avatar of _6!_ 
     Possession of a soulforge is critical for the use of A
Better Death.  These items are talismans which absorb souls and
unawakened Avatars (level 5).  Each is keyed to certain
circumstances which allow a soul to enter.  For instance, one may
only work on Tuesdays, or to those who are stabbed.  The maximum
amount of souls a soulforge can carry is 50.  For every 10 souls
stored, those that carry the Soulforge can extend their
Quintessence reserves by 1 point.

-- 
thanatos@interaccess.com        /  "Want to go to Toner's after this?
DeathUrge, Master of Unknown	\    I always like it." 
Time and Space.			/     - John Constantine, _Hellblazer_ 
            "It's a Zen thing.  You wouldn't understand." 
