From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Sat Jul 26 23:15:48 1995
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from mail5.netcom.com (root@mail5.netcom.com [192.100.81.141])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id XAA15491 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Wed, 26 Jul 1995 23:15:46 +0200
Received: by mail5.netcom.com (8.6.12/Netcom)
	id JAA25439; Wed, 26 Jul 1995 09:32:50 -0700
Received: from hemul.nada.kth.se by mail5.netcom.com (8.6.12/Netcom)
	id JAA25413; Wed, 26 Jul 1995 09:32:44 -0700
Received: (from nv91-asa@localhost)
	by hemul.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.9)
	id SAA25863;
	Wed, 26 Jul 1995 18:34:15 +0200
Date: Wed, 26 Jul 1995 18:34:14 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
To: wod-l <wod-l@netcom.com>
Subject: Little Nasties
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.91N2.950726183341.25845A-100000@hemul.nada.kth.se>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Sender: owner-wod-l@netcom.com
Precedence: list
Reply-To: wod-l@netcom.com

"Little Nasties" 

"Little Nasties" are minor beings which tend to be attracted by the
activities of mages, usually harmless and merely annoying. The near umbra
of a mage's home can be a very strange place... 

Some mages wage a virtual war against unwanted presences, building wards
and performing exorcisms. Others accept them, and claim they belong to a
home just like rats belong in a house (It is worth mentioning that cats
often seems to be able to perceive the beings and hunt them). Anyway, they
are very hard to keep away for long. 

The Eaters of Dust

These Entropy-minions are quite common, they feed on quintessence from the
scraps left by mankind. The usually manifest as dust in the corners,
stains or sticky patches and feed on cookie crumbs, spilled liquids, dirt
or lost objects as they vanish into the Shadowlands. They are both
ubiquitous and harmless; they appear in large numbers in places where
people forget and spill things, like bars, untidy rooms or in gutters.
They are naturally attracted to Entropy mages. 

Huulh

This is a somewhat more powerful relative to the Eaters of Dust, a spirit
attracted by sex. Huulh is invisible in the material world, but in the
Umbra it manifests as a ball (around 30 centimetres in diameter) of sexual
organs, dribbling fluids and quivering slightly.  It seems to feed on the
emotions of stale sex, hovering around prostitutes or neurotics and subtly
encouraging them to get involved in more sex. It is actually repulsed by
true passion, and prefers to keep its distance from many Cultist Mages. 

Abyss Hunters

The Hunters are a mixed groups of minions who only exist for the hunt.
They are able to hunt down their quarry across space and time, finding
even the most clever hiding places. Usually a pack of Hunters are summoned
by a mage or another spirit and given the task to find someone; the hunt
itself and its dangers is their payment. 

Hunters can look like just about anything, but physically they usually
manifest as hound-like shadows, suggestions of faces in the wallpaper or
woodgrain, the sound of heavy steps closing in or a distant howl. They can
hunt just about anywhere; in the physical world, in the Umbra, in the
Shadowlands, and pursue their victim relentlessly, feeding on its paranoia
and growing fear (quite often the victim is given glimpses or hints that
he is hunted long before the Hunters arrive). Finally they appear,
surround the victim and wait for their master to arrive. 

Lurkers

Lurkers are quite discreet beings, who quietly hide in shadows, behind
furniture and in inaccessible places. They are usually only felt as a
presence watching people in the room. While many mages are a bit paranoid
about having spirits spy on them (not to mention how much cats likes to
hunt the lurkers), they are usually harmless and merely curious. Sometimes
they appear just before something important is going to happen, watch it
and then vanish again. 

The Watchers

The Watchers are an enigmatic group of beings, apparently unable to cross
the Gauntlet by themselves. They see and hear just about anything; they
constantly keep track of what happens in the world using Correspondence
and Spirit, quietly watching what the humans are doing. According to some
theories they are an older race than mankind, they were created before the
physical world and are unable to enter it of their own power. Instead they
silently watch over it, hoping/fearing to somehow find a way in. Both the
Ahl-I- Batin and Order of Hermes agree on that this would be a bad thing,
although they are unsure of exactly why. Many mages communicate with the
Watchers, hoping to gain valuable information from the elder beings. A few
conservatives frown on this practice, warning that such an exchange could
be harmful for both parts. 

"Don't Think About It, Because It Will Get Worse" 

This is one of the most bizarre entities from the High Umbra, apparently
recently unleashed into the Near Umbra. It personifies the concept of
something you should not think about, but of course are unable to avoid
("Don't think about a white elephant!"). When people fail to avoid
thinking of something it gets stronger, and gradually take on the form of
whatever one shouldn't think about.  When it manifests, its shape is
undefined until it is formed by the fears of someone present (everybody in
the vicinity intuitively realises its true nature and the danger). One
could guess that the Imp of the Perverse would be very fond of this being,
who could serve as a Mind-Paradox spirit. 

Emotrophic Growths

These are among the lowest minions, hardly more than umbral plants,
feeding on emotions (a wraith would say Pathos), using their energy to
grow and reproduce. They look differently depending on the type of
emotions they feed on (and the paradigm of the viewing mage, of course);
growths around a building filled with rational thoughts become clear and
crystalline, while an old and homely flat might contain baroque polyps
reminiscent of brown corals. 

Emotrophic Reefs and Psychic Vampires

While the Growths are harmless and merely annoying, sometimes they can
infect a very weak-willed human under severe emotional stress. The growths
absorb every scrap of emotion and memory from his mind, and he becomes
little more than their symbiote, a psychic vampire. The vampire begins to
absorb emotions and energy from others, bringing them back to the growths
which feed on them. In time the growths develop into a complex reef of
mixed mentality, while the vampire grows more and more hungry for true
emotions. It is not uncommon for the vampire to be completely unaware of
that anything is wrong, they just feel empty and strangely detached from
everything while their homes get more and more filled with mementoes,
unsorted garbage and things they don't need. 



-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




