From nv91-asa@oder.nada.kth.se Fri May 27 17:48:28 1994
Date: Fri, 27 May 1994 17:46:00 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@oder.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Nexus
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9405271700.C22311-0100000@oder.nada.kth.se>

Apropos quintessence and Marauders:

Nexus

This cabal of rouges steals quintessence from nodes
belonging to other cabals and chantries using
Correspondence. They have already refined their methods
much, and they spend much time learning the locations of new
nodes to tap. Their grasp of Correspondence and Prime is
better than many tradition mages, and had their goals been
less selfish, they would probably have been greeted with
great acclaim. 

Their leader, Gretchen Keller, is a Master of Correspondence
and has devised an elegant plan to gain unlimited
quintessence: by using co-location, she intends to stack
together hundreds of different nodes into one gigantic
hyper-node the cabal controls. The cabal has already tested
her ideas on a smaller scale by temporary merging several
small nodes into a large node, and found that it works quite
well. 

Gretchen has created many small talismans which are divided
in two parts; both parts remain in sympathy, and can be used
to seek out the other with Correspondence. Nexus secretly
places such talismans (often no larger than a small stone, a
grain of sand or a hair) near or in the nodes they find. By
using the other half, they can easily tap it again or use
Correspondence against it. Naturally, the other halves are
kept separate and far from the cabal under normal
circumstances to avoid backtracking (but few of their
victims even suspect the truth, and many victims ever remain
unaware that they have been raided). 

Most members are looking forward to the time when they will
control the most powerful node in the world, and have not
realised the full implications of the plan. Gretchen is
actually quite insane, a Marauder or both. By stacking
together all the nodes, the hyper- node will become focus
for intense forces, much more than any group of human mages
can ever control. It will probably burn through both the
Gauntlet and Horizon, and the extreme flow of quintessence
will turn reality extremely dynamic. Gretchen doesn't care,
and have explained to the other members that she knows how
to harness the energy. Those who doubt her has conveniently
fallen prey to the counterattacks of the traditions. 

Gretchen actually plans to unleash the power of the
hyper-node just to prove it can be done. She have no
intention of watching from a distance, she plans to be
present at the exact centre. One theory she want to test is
if the titanic amounts of quintessence could turn her into a
godlike being or even Ascend her. Another thing she want to
see is what happens to reality when the flow of quintessence
is disturbed on a large scale. Not to mention the ego-
boost. 

Stack Nodes (Correspondence 5 Prime 3)
--------------------------------------
This rote stacks two nodes together, and links their
quintessence. In effect their ratings add together. The
stacking doesn't have to be visible or large, just a tiny
volume near both nodes are enough.  However, with more
powerful nodes or radically different ratings the linking
volume tend to grow due to the flow of Prime. The rote tends
to affect the nodes, turning them more unstable afterwards. 

Gretchens Little Bug (talisman 1)
---------------------------------
The talisman can be anything, which I broken into two parts.
What happens to one part happens to the other. This is most
useful for many things, ranging from spying and sabotage to
research. By using Correspondence 1 on one half, the mage
can perceive the surroundings of the other half. 




-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




