=====================================================================
NEXUS - THE REALM 
=====================================================================
 
 
    Nexus is a generally Earth-like environment, in that the 
atmosphere is breathable, liquid water is present, and the flora and 
fauna are compatible with those of Earth. The scenery is spectacular, 
though. 
    Nexus apparently has no Sun. However, it is continually 
illuminated by the light from many stars - night is non-existent on 
Nexus. In addition, five large moons circle Nexus, equally spaced 
along the same orbit. The moons go through phases, which is odd 
considering there is no Sun. Their day sides are reddish, implying 
that the source of the light is red in colour. At any given point, 
all the phases are accounted for - one moon is New, another is 
Crescent, another is Half, another is Gibbous, and the last one is 
Full. A day is defined as the time it takes between moonrise and 
moonset - 32 hours. A month is defined as the time it takes for a 
given moon to pass through all its phases - this takes 50 days.
    If the Garou were aware of this place, no doubt they would attach 
some cosmological significance to the fact that all their auspices are 
represented in the sky. A search for the light source in the sky 
using telescopes has as yet revealed nothing, which baffles Continuum 
Scientists. 
 
    The atmosphere on Nexus is thick and humid, but pleasantly warm.
It rains a lot, and occasionally great thunderstorms sweep across the 
land. There appears to be no seasonal variation. Gravity is 
Earthlike. 
    The landscape is very extreme - there are vast oceans, huge 
perfectly flat plains, and towering mountains and crags that dwarf 
the largest on Earth. An unusual rock in some areas is known as 
`Timestone' - from a distance it appears solid, but on closer 
inspection other realities can be seen through the shimmering 
translucent rock. Nexus is largely unexplored by the Continuum, but 
appears to be a vast place, much larger than Earth. 
     The flora and fauna are generally Earth-like, although the 
vegetation varies in colour from greens and blues to reds and 
purples. The plant life is striking in its variety - there are 
towering Needletrees that reach up to 200' tall that do not sway in 
even the strongest hurricanes, and others (Lowtrees) that are about 
2' high but spread over and area of about 100 square feet! 
    Fauna is varied too - some animals are dangerous, many are not. 
Predators can be difficult to deal with, since they often have some 
precognitive ability to know where their prey is. Some prey species 
also have this ability, but in many cases they allow themselves to be 
killed by the predators anyway. 
 
    Other more dangerous species feed on Time itself, and will either 
age their prey or create a Time Loop in which they repeat the same 
actions. Somehow they derive sustenance from these shifts in Time. 
    There is no direct evidence for any intelligent life on Nexus, 
but there are ancient/future artefacts on the plane. A lighthouse, 
paradoxically dated as being built 3000 years from now, stands at the 
edge of the Shifting Sea. This is not a sea at all, but is rather a 
plain, where reality itself ebbs and flows with some cosmic tide. 
Elsewhere, ancient ruins depicting the entire histories of realities 
lie, untouched by time, below the Sands of Time. 
 
------------------------ 
Time and the Environment 
------------------------     

The Passage of Time:    Time is a strange and highly localized 
phenomenon in Nexus. It appears that individual, aware beings (ie. 
animals and sapients) have their own Internal Time Field in which 
they operate, regardless of the External (environmental) Time Field -
for example, a human Mage from MC Earth caught in an External Field 
where Time apparently passes 10 times slower will still be able to 
move at his normal rate. However, everything around him (that is not 
another animal or sapient being) will be moving much slower - plants 
will sway lazily in the wind, bullets will take longer to reach their 
targets etc. 
    However, it is still possible for Mages studying Time to contract 
or dilate their own Time Fields - thus in a part of Nexus where Time 
passes twice as fast as normal, the Mage can speed up his own 
Internal Field (using Time Magic) to match the External Field. If 
this is done, the External and Internal Fields are synchronised, and 
to the Mage's perspective, Time passes at a normal rate for him. 
 
Temporal Waves:     Being the Shade Realm of Time, Nexus is subject 
to unusual temporal environmental effects. The most important of 
these are the Temporal Waves that sweep across the Realm. These 
appear as immense transparent linear waves that travel across the 
land, moving at varying speeds. Some travel extremely rapidly, others 
can be escaped simply by walking. These Waves have the property of 
altering the flow of Time by their passage. The exact effect of the 
Temporal Wave can be deduced by looking through the Wavefront as it 
approaches. The image of the environment on the other side is sped up 
or slowed down depending on the effect of the wave. Thus, if a Wave 
will speed up the flow of Time three times relative to the present 
rate, images seen through the Wavefront will appear to move three 
times faster than those nearer the observer.  
    This results in a form of `Temporal Weather Prediction', as 
sensors in the Field detect the incoming wave and transmit data to 
Central Office. This is then processed and transmitted to Field 
Agents operating in Nexus so they can prepare for the approaching 
Temporal Wave. 
    Studies of the geometry of these Temporal Waves has shown a 
slight curvature to them, which indicates that they emanate (like 
ripples) from a very distant central point somewhere to the south of 
Central Office (CO). This is certainly in the unexplored regions of 
Nexus. Quite what could be causing the Waves are another matter, and 
an expedition to what has been dubbed `The Origin' is being 
considered by the Research Section of CO.   

Time Zones: The actual rate of passage of a being's Internal Time 
Field depends on the External Time Field of the universe it was born 
in. The External Field of Main Corridor is the one that we as humans 
are most familiar with - it is what we consider the `normal' passage 
of time. Most of the Virtuals, being derived directly from MC, have 
this same External Field. However, in Nexus itself there are zones in 
which the basic External Field is different to that of MC's. These 
stable zones are known as Time Zones, and can be thought of as 
Islands of stability in the temporal storm - the passage of time 
within these Time Zones is unaffected by the passage of a Temporal 
Wave. Central Office itself is built in the only known Time Zone 
where the passage of time is equal to that of MC. However, there are 
many others in which the External Field is slower or faster. Note 
that Time Zones can have any physical size and shape. The largest 
known is a square whose sides are 25 km long - this is where Central 
Office is located. 
    Time Zones are frequently inhabited by indigenous creatures, 
which either evolved there from scratch or migrated there from other 
Time Zones and temporally adapted to the new External Field. This 
means their Internal Fields are synchronised to the External Field of 
the Time Zone they live in, even if they move outside it. Animals 
indigenous to the slower Time Zones to Central Office are rarely a 
threat to humans since they therefore move at an inherently slower 
rate, but those originating in the faster Time Zones are often quite 
dangerous, since they can naturally operate at much faster speeds. 
Agents are frequently advised to be on their guard in the field in 
Nexus [Time 1 actually has some use here, since Mages will be able to 
sense when they have entered a Time Zone]. 
    Some Zones have been disovered where there is no External Time 
Field - in these places, there is no apparent passage of Time. Past, 
Present, and Future have no meaning in these Zones - indigenous 
creatures are effectively immortal (since their Internal Time Fields 
are synchronised with the External Field - Time does not pass for 
them). However, humans entering these Fields can still grow old since 
their Internal Time Fields operate as normal - the External Field 
will still be present though, so they will not be aware of the 
passage of time at all. [Think of the Nexus in `Star Trek: 
Generations' if you've seen it]. 

    Time Fields are quantified as follows: a Time Field where the 
flow of passage of time is equal to that within Main Corridor is 
known as a Class 1 Time Field. The number indicates the rate of 
passage of time relative to Main Corridor. Thus, faster fields are 
known as Class 2, 3, 4, 5, etc fields (non-integer flow rates are 
possible, so there are Class 2.5 Fields, for example). Slower fields 
are defined by numbers less than one, usually written as a fractional 
number - a field where time passes at half the rate of MC is known as 
a Class 1/2 Field for example. Time Zones in which there is no 
External field are known as Class 0 Fields.
 
Weather: The Weather in Nexus is generally earth-like, but the 
temporal effects of the environment can produce several unusual 
phenomena - the most striking of these are the SlowStorms. These are 
thunderstorms that accumulate and disperse very slowly, almost as if 
they were in a much slower Time Zone. When they do accumulate, the 
lightning bolts they throw travel to the ground extremely slowly - 
slow enough for beings to see them coming and dodge!!! 
    Other unusual meteorological conditions include FastStorms (like 
SlowStorms, but they accumulate within minutes and are over very 
rapidly - seeing one from a distance is one of the most spectacular 
sights on Nexus, as thousands of lightning bolts rain down in a few 
minutes) and Hard Hail (Hail falling in an accelerated External Field 
- thus when they strike humans (moving with an Internal Class 1 
Field) they appear to fall much faster and thus can actually cause 
serious physical damage when they strike. 
 
TimeStone: Timestone is nothing less than Solid Space-Time. It is the 
base from which all reality is constructed from, and is extremely 
rare in the MetaVerse - indeed, it has so far been found only on 
Nexus. In situ, it is a brownish-tinged translucent rock through 
which other realities can dimly be perceived. Its properties are as 
largely unknown, but it is known that if one concentrates and tries 
to `walk through' a Timestone exposure one can enter the Virtual that 
lies on the other side. However, it is often much easier (and more 
reliable) to enter a Virtual using Spirit magick than via Timestone, 
since the same Virtual rarely remains behind a TimeStone exposure for 
long.      
    It has been discovered that TimeStone has the property of being 
detectable within other Virtuals through the use of Time 1. Being 
a part of Nexus, it is only perceptable to MC Mages and those with 
Temporal Avatars. Thus it can be used by Continuum Agents as a kind 
of homing beacon to others of their kind in other realities.  
    In Nexus, TimeStone has a most useful property - a kilogram (2.2 
lbs) of TimeStone is equivalent to a single pawn (1 point) of Level 
0 (MC-quality) Time or Correspondence (Space) Tass. Thus, it can only 
be used to fuel either Time or Correspondence effects. The mass 
required precludes it from being carried around by individuals in 
huge quantities. Unfortunately, outside of Nexus, Timestone is simply 
another lump of glassy brown rock, which has no effect on magick - 
presumably, it is too unique to Nexus to be of any use anywhere else. 
 
Geology: In many places in Nexus, the geology is generally Earthlike -
however, the rate of geological evolution is quite varied, and 
confusingly seems to have no connection with the External Time Field. 
Mountain Ranges have been known to appear overnight, and erosion can 
occur extremely rapidly (usually depending on the Entropy rating of 
the area). Glaciers have been observed travelling very quickly, while 
volcanic eruptions have occurred at very slow rates. Fortunately, CO 
appears to be situated in a reasonably stable region of Nexus! 
 
--------------
Sphere Ratings 
--------------
 
    I think its a good idea to not only treat Ratings as 'pluses' or 
'minuses', but also as actual Sphere levels. As it stands, 
Correspondence +3 implies that Immediate Spatial Perception (Corr. 
1), Colocality perception (Corr. 2), and Teleportation (Corr. 3) are 
naturally possible in a realm.  
    But I don't want this - what if I just want a realm in which 
Teleportation is natural but the Perception effects are not? Simple - 
I just put the rating as Correspondence 3. No pluses or minuses. This 
implies that effects involving Correspondence 3 alone are natural in 
this realm and do not require a spell-casting roll (or at most just 
require a coincidental roll). All other Correspondence effects 
involving other levels are treated as normal magickal effects.  
 
    Correspondence: 3 
    Entropy:    Special 
    Forces:     0 
    Life:       0 
    Matter:     0 
    Mind:       2 
    Prime:      +3 
    Spirit:     3 (Virtuals only) 
    Time:       +5 
 
  
 
 
To explain:  
 
Correspondence 3: Indigenous creatures on Nexus are capable of 
teleporting themselves. The natural laws here just allow that. 
Colocating or spatial perception is not naturally allowed though. 
This makes a jaunt in the local jungles VERY dangerous indeed! 
Central Office is however magickally shielded to prevent invasion by 
teleporting predators.

Entropy: This is variable since Entropy is so closely linked to Time. 
In faster Time Fields (where things can decay/break down faster), 
this is set at Ratings 3, 4, and 5. This means that eroding matter/ 
withering life/intellectual entropy is easier to do in the background 
of the faster time flow. 
    Conversely, in slower time fields (where things decay/break down 
slower), destructive Entropy magick is harder to accomplish. All 
difficulties to level 3, 4, and 5 Entropy effects are at +2 
difficulty.   

Pattern Magick: +/- 0. Forces, Life and Matter are treated no 
different here than anywhere else. Granted, the Forces of Nature here 
are much more dramatic than on Earth, but I don't see that this would 
warrant an increase in the Forces rating. Storms are just more 
violent and spectacular (lots of electrical discharge), while winds 
are quite strong.

Mind 2: Many creatures on Nexus are telepathic, or more precisely, 
telempathic. They are capable of transmitting emotional commands. 
Sirens (creatures that lure prey to their doom in their maws) use  
telepathic impulses to dupe their prey.  
 
Prime +3: The sheer number of Nodes that supply Nexus make the place 
fairly glow with Quintessence. As a result, it is very easy to see 
Nodes or transfer Quintessence (even Virtual Quint) from one place to 
another in Nexus. 
 
Spirit (3): This is only in connection to Virtuals - it is very easy 
to enter Virtuals from Nexus. All other Realms are at normal 
difficulty to enter from Nexus. Access to the Deep Umbra from here is 
impossible (effectively at Spirit -6). 
 
Time +5: Any Time effect is naturally possible here. This includes 
the creation of Time Loops, the ebb and flow of Time, complete 
cessation of Time, and contraction and dilation. This IS after all 
the Shade Realm of Time! :-) 
 

-------
PARADOX
-------

    Nexus is so much a part of the Continuum's Paradigm (and vice 
versa) that magick in it is considerably harder for those who live 
outside this paradigm. The situation is rather similar to that which 
must exist in Autochthonia, the Home Realm of Iteration-X - Tradition 
Magick must be impossible (or at least very difficult) there since it 
is so against the paradigm of that Convention. 
    Continuum Agents can cast their magicks as normal in Nexus (using 
the sphere ratings described above), but any invading Traditions (or 
the Technocracy) have to cope with Paradox! Paradox thus strikes as 
normal for any Mage whose Paradigm is different to the Continuum's. 
All magicks cast by an invading Mage require a spellcasting roll, 
even if they are 'free' as a result of the sphere ratings. Paradox 
strikes in exactly the same way as it does on Earth, though it does 
not seem to affect Continuum Agents. This is one reason that the 
Continuum managed to hold off the Technocracy when they seceded from 
them in the early 20th century. Additionally, it is rumoured that 
this may be the result of a change in the nature of the Realm created 
by the Continuum's Oracles.
    Fortunately for the Continuum's allies, there is a way around 
this. Through training, the outsider can be acclimatised to the 
paradigm within Nexus such that he does not gain Paradox for casting 
magicks there. In addition, every outsider entering Nexus is given 
an ID badge which contains a tiny piece of modified TimeStone. This 
acts as a kind of bar-code which is used to identify the outsider. 
This must be worn at all times in the Realm, and must be returned 
when leaving Nexus. Since TimeStone acts as a beacon outside Nexus 
for those with Time 1, it can be used to unerringly follow those who 
try to smuggle their ID badge out of the Realm (for duplication, for 
example). Since Timestone is unique to the realm, it is very hard to 
duplicate outside it. This provides another security measure to 
protect the Realm. 


------------------
NODES AND VIRTUALS 
------------------
 
    Nexus is fuelled by many nodes from a wide variety of (largely 
unpopulated) Virtuals, as well as Earth itself.  
 
        THE ORB OF LUCIFER: An extremely powerful Node, this is 
located on the major continent of Lucifer, a Level 1 Virtual. In 
this timeline, Life never evolved on Earth. The planet remains as 
hostile Hothouse world, with surface temperatures ranging between 50 
and 120 degrees Celsius [between 120 and 240 degrees Fahrenheit], a 
large proportion of Steam and Carbon Dioxide in the atmosphere, and 
very hot polar oceans. There is extensive volcanic and seismic 
activity. Of course, there is no Oxygen content in the air at all. 
The planet itself is tipped at an angle of 40 degrees to the 
vertical, and a day is equal to a mere 8 hours!!! As a result, winds 
and storms on Lucifer can be extremely powerful. 
    Interestingly enough, Lucifer has no Moon, leading many Continuum 
scientists to believe that the formation of the Moon played a 
critical role in the formation of life on Earth. 
    In this hostile environment however lies one of the most powerful 
Nodes in the Metaverse. The Node itself is a 10' diameter globe, the 
Orb of Lucifer, hovering a few feet above the ground on the planet's 
major continent. It is constructed of a black material that defies 
all analysis (even Magickal). It rotates around its axis, tipped at 
40 degrees to the vertical, once every 8 hours - exactly like the 
planet it is located on! And its power is immense. No ley lines or 
other Nodes exist on Lucifer - it is almost as if all the planet's 
Quintessence is channelled to and concentrated at the Orb. 
    The Orb's origin is unknown - its connection (if any) with the 
present state of Lucifer is also unknown, as is its purpose. Whether 
its builders will return to claim it one day is a matter that most 
Continuum Agents would rather not think about..... 
    The Orb is heavily guarded by the Continuum's finest agents, and 
it is presently located in a sealed Guard Station that has been built 
around it. Humans require spacesuits or atmospheric protection to 
survive outside the Station. The Orb and Station has already been the 
focus of several concerted attacks by agents of the Darkness, all of 
which have been successfully repulsed so far. 
 
        NADA ONE: This is a mysterious city of glass, which appears 
(along with the small rocky island it is situated on) out of thin air 
in the Southern Indian Ocean on Earth. It always appears at Sunset, 
and is only visible while the Sun's disk touches the open sea, and 
even then it is only physically *real* if viewed/approached from 
certain angles. After the Sun sets, it disappears for the rest of the 
night and following day. 
    Nada One itself is a beautiful, eerie and silent place. It is 
uninhabited, and completely unaffected by the environment - it is 
extremely clean, and the glass it is constructed on is perfectly 
unblemished. The glass itself appears to be indestructible - it 
cannot be broken. 
    It is not known where the Island disappears to after Sunset. It 
is believed that the city travels through the Corridor, appearing at 
random points in Time. If anyone or anything is left behind on the 
isle, they are never seen again - when Nada One returns, no trace of 
its accidental passengers are ever found. Indeeed, anything moved in 
the Glass City resumes its normal place when Nada One returns. 

        EASTER ISLAND: Located on Earth itself, Easter Island is a 
collection of hundreds of smaller Nodes, each represented by one of 
the famous `Heads' that gaze out to sea. It is quite powerful, and 
the Order of Hermes has been vying for access rights, but so far the 
Continuum is having none of it.  
 
        CONCENTRATION ALPHA: Alpha is located in a Level 1 Virtual 
codenamed `Neverland'. Neverland is exactly identical to Earth until 
January 18th 1993. On this day, every higher life form on the planet 
(ie. all human and animal life) suddenly vanished without a trace! 
    The only clue to this Vanishing is the continual signal emitted 
from the Aricebo Radio Dish in Puerto Rico, aimed at what is 
apparently a point of empty space about a billion kilometres beyond 
the orbit of Pluto. Further research by the Continuum through 
Neverland Aricebo and US Government records has so far yielded no 
official documentation or explanation for the transmission, and no 
target for the signal has been described. However, the signal was 
activated on the 18th January 1993. Interestingly enough, there is no 
record of such a transmission in the Aricebo records on MC Earth at 
that time..... 
    Aricebo itself is a major Node in this Virtual, which is beaming 
out Quintessence to its target point. Although the Continuum has 
deactivated the transmitter, Quintessence is nevertheless still being 
beamed to the target. In addition, Aricebo is the nexus of all of the 
Ley Lines on Neverland - this ley line network is believed to be 
artificial, and hints at some secret magickal experiment (probably 
set up by the Technocracy) that backfired horribly. It is even 
possible that the Darkness partially intruded on this Virtual before 
it was re-attached to Nexus, which may be an alternative explanation 
that accounts for the disappearance of the planet's higher lifeforms. 
     The Continuum has managed to at least tap some of the flow, but 
with this came the discovery that Neverland itself is actually losing 
cohesion - the Quintessence is actually disappearing from the Virtual 
at the beam's target point! The Continuum is trying to prevent this 
loss before Neverland becomes a Level 2 (or worse) Virtual, or 
completely loses cohesion.


-------------------
CENTRAL OFFICE (CO)
-------------------

Introduction: The following are guidelines to the integration of the 
Continuum to a standard Mage Chronicle. This section largely 
covers the policy of the Continuum regarding Virtuals and other 
outsiders. They are by no means complete, and need not be considered 
'official'. The existence of the Continuum and Nexus can change the 
focus of a campaign, so I leave it largely up to the individual 
storyteller as to how they should be included. 


--------
Overview
--------

    Central Office itself is a complex of interconnected utilitarian 
red-brick buildings situated on an large flat prairie in Nexus. It is 
located in the only known stable Class 1 Time Zone. 
    The buildings include several towers and fortification, a 
holdover of the days when the Technocracy sought to actively invade 
Nexus and wrest control of it from the Continuum. CO is still 
heavily defended, and regularly patrolled by experienced and well-
armed guards. It is also magickally shielded so that it is impossible 
to enter it from outside using Correspondence magicks.
    Inside, Central Office is a network of laboratories, ready rooms 
and offices. It is powered by its own generators in the basement, and 
has several backups in case of a power failure. It also has a 
computer network directly connected to the main Intelligence 
Acquisition Station in London, England on Earth. It has extensive 
research facilities (though not as much as other Home Chantries) and 
a huge catalogue of data on the known manifestations of the Darkness.
    Entrances to Nexus are small in number and are found only in the 
vicinity of Central Office, and as such are very heavily protected by 
checkpoints and guard posts. While the level of security can 
sometimes be oppressive, those working in Nexus acknowledge that it 
is essential to prevent the Realm from falling into the wrong hands. 
The security is not invasive however, and many Mages often forget 
they are working inside a fortress.


-----------------------------------
CONTINUUM POLICY REGARDING VIRTUALS
-----------------------------------

    The Continuum has a fixed policy regarding the inhabited Virtuals 
(ie. those that contain indigenous sentient beings) - it only deals 
with them as and when necessary, and even then only with Awakened 
members of that society. Sometimes it actively Quarantines them (as 
in the case of the more hostile Virtuals such as Reich and Terra 
Prime). This is akin to a 'Prime Directive', and is largely as a 
result of the Law Of Continuity. However, those with Temporal Avatars 
that originate in these Quarantined Virtuals and attempt to leave are 
quickly hunted down and 'contained'. This usually involves Mind, 
Prime and Spirit manipulation which blocks the Temporal Avatar and 
prevents it from leaving the Virtual. However, many have escaped this 
fate, and most have gone on to join the Technocracy on MC Earth. A 
few fight a guerilla war on Nexus itself, but these are rarely a 
significant threat to the Continuum.
    In most cases though, the Continuum leaves the inhabited Virtuals 
alone, though it often welcomes those with Temporal Avatars (from the 
Non-Quarantined Virtuals) who blunder through to Nexus and discover 
the truth about the extent of the universe. Indeed, many of the 
Continuum's finest agents are from other Virtuals.
    Although there is a vast amouunt of Nodes available to tap among 
the Virtuals, the Continuum leaves those in the inhabited Virtuals to 
their inhabitants - there are plenty of Nodes to be found in the 
uninhabited Virtuals. The Law Of Continuity could easily be violated 
if a Continuum agent is capture by the inhabitants of a Virtual, who 
then discover that they are in fact no longer the 'official' 
universe. The social consequences of this within the Virtual could 
severely undermine the world-view of the inhabitants, a fate that the 
Cotinuum wish to avoid. Many Continuum agents in the field are 
extremely careful, and Intelligence Acquisition sets up complex
identities for them to allow them to fit into the Virtual more 
easily. In some cases (eg. Sauron), the Agent has to be physcially 
changed to fit in!
    However, the Continuum has an open policy when it comes to the 
uninhabited Virtuals, those that are not populated by sentient 
beings. These it uses for resources (minerals, Quintessence, etc) and 
exploration. Many uninhabited Virtuals are simply catalogued and 
forgotten, but bases are frequently set up in the more unusual 
Virtuals (such as Neverland and Lucifer).


-----------------------------------------------
POLICY REGARDING THE TRADITIONS AND TECHNOCRACY
-----------------------------------------------

    While the Continuum remains comparatively open with the 
Traditions, it frequently has to hold them at bay from raiding the 
Quintessence of the Virtuals. Tradition Mages are extensively vetted 
before they are allowed to enter Nexus, and those seeking to join the 
Continuum must often pass stringent examinations to do so. Any allied 
mage found comprimising the security of the Realm, Virtuals, or 
Central Office is dealt with with extreme prejudice....
    The Technocracy is not allowed within Nexus. The Continuum is 
aware of what this organization could do given access to the Virtuals, 
and does not wish to take the risk of them invasively plundering the 
resources of the Virtuals to give them a huge advantage in the 
Ascension War. The Traditions as a whole are similarly prevented from 
doing so.
    The Continuum fully places itself outside the Ascension War. It 
plays no part in the domination of reality, and seeks to remain 
neutral - it has its own role to play in the defense of reality, 
which is a fulltime job in itself.


------------------------------
POLICY REGARDING THE MARAUDERS
------------------------------
    
    The Marauders are one of the main enemies of the Continuum. They 
are a constant thorn in their sides, since their immunity to Paradox 
applies even within Nexus. Virtual Marauders, while limited to their 
own Virtuals, have been proving a problem since there are reports 
that some have kidnapped MC Mages (and Virtual Mages with Temporal 
Avatars) and somehow 'transplanted' the Temporal Avatar to their own 
bodies, effectively turning them into MC Marauders able to access
any Virtual, Nexus, and Main Corridor. It is not known why the 
Marauders are so interested in Nexus and the Virtuals. Perhaps it is 
because it represents the 'Dynamic' aspect of Time - the infinite 
possibilities that lie in the alternate universes of the Virtuals. 
Many think that the Marauders seek to 'free Time' from the 
constraints of the Virtuals, creating a realm where all the 
alternatives exist at once. Regardless, the Continuum repels 
Marauders wherever they are found in Nexus.

=====================================================================
