Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller
From: The Man in Black <mib@cyberspace.org>
Subject: NWO PERSONNEL FILES #1-#4
X-Nntp-Posting-Host: intlrel.soc.hawaii.edu
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1
X-Xxmessage-Id: <AC9F2CB62F01C832@intlrel.soc.hawaii.edu>
X-Xxdate: Mon, 9 Oct 1995 19:47:02 GMT
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
Organization: New World Order
X-Newsreader: Nuntius 2.0.3_PPC
Mime-Version: 1.0
Date: Tue, 10 Oct 1995 05:49:47 GMT

NWO PERSONNEL FILE#1

The Chaperone

Description: A Master of disguise, this female(62.345%prob) agent may
assume any likeness she chooses. She almost always appears female
however. Her disguises are both standard and procedurally effective.

Mission Applicability: the Chaperone specializes in HUMINT surveillance
and close support operations. 

Contact Data: The chaperone may be contacted through the HUMINT Control
in your sector.

Method of Operation: When contacted the chaperone asks for as much
information as possible on her assignment. She the proceeds to spend 1-2
days familiarizing herself with the assignment's daily routine and normal
place of employment, hang-outs, etc... 
     Following engagement in close support she immediately reports in to
the local intelligence analyst. At no time does she maintain contact with
her assignment.

Personality Profile: The chaperone maintains no permanent residence
spending most downtime in safe houses or hotels. She prefers brief
relationships and 
has little contact with friends or family. It is suggested that an agent
engage in a long lasting affair with her to preclude any unwarranted
personal contact with the enemy.

NWO PERSONNEL FILE#2

Agent 77

Description: a Man in Black

Mission Applicability: Agent 77 is a Special Intelligence Specialist who
investigates and deals with Counter-Intelligence. He often is able to
bring disloyal personnel to their senses and ferret out cells of Reality
Criminals. His effectiveness in achieving his mission objectives is
72.745% currently the highest among special intelligence specialists.

Contact Data: Only Intelligence Analysts (G-22) and above can request the
services of Agent 77 through sector COUNTINT control.

Method of Operation: Agent 77 poses as a new transfer into a sector, then
meets and befreinds all personnel, he then either entraps or gets
entrapped by possible disloyal personnel. He then attempts to subtly
redirect their efforts or confronts them with evidence of their misdeeds.
If this fails he is authorized to sanction disloyal personnel.

Personality Profile: Agent 77 likes to see people doing their job and
performing to the best of their ability. He highly respects competance.
When penetrating infiltrated sectors, he is completely ruthless in
bringing traitors to justice. But a good report from him will be entered
onto a personnel's Permanent Record.

NWO PERSONNEL FILE#3

The Mystery Man

Description: a man in grey

Mission Applicability: The mystery man delivers unsanctioned information
to local sectors and unaffiliated personnel. He can also serve as a
source of disinformation. His actions are sanctioned by NWO Contact
Control and are in support of the POGROM.

Contact Data: The Mystery Man is not eligible for contact through normal
channels.

Method of Operation: The Mystery Man typically makes contact in a
secluded public place and divulges information that serves the purpose of
the NWO. He often files a report on the subjects he contacts with the NWO
Information Bureau. 

Personality Profile: The Mystery Man feels that providing complete
information is the only way to see to the success of missions. When he
gets a report of improper flow of information he acts to smooth the flow
so information is provided without violation of unauthorized material. In
this way he maintains the security of NWO databases.

NWO PERSONNEL FILE#4

Trace Roberts

Description: A handsome man approaching middle age. Physically fit and
muscular. Brown hair and blue eyes, speaks with a German or eastern
European accent.

Mission Applicability: Trace Roberts is a non-valid operative. He is
incapable of procedures, both standard and dynamic. He is however, a
Special Intelligence Specialist. He specializes in overt sanctions. His
services are  to be utilized only in last resort. He has certain
enhancements provided by the Progenitors, and is an expert in firearms,
demolitions, hand to hand combat, physical fitness, surveillance and is
qualified to instruct in all these areas.

Contact Data: Central Sanction Control Office

Method of Operation: Roberts uses the most extreme means possible when
exercising sanctions. In one case he destroyed a small American Town in
pursuit of a particularly dangerous group of individuals. He is heavily
armed at all times.

Personality Profile: Roberts is a unsubtle soldier, he follows orders and
gets the job done. He loves his wife and family. He works well with
others and is remarkably well adjusted. He is highly moral and will not
terminate people he views as "good". His weakness in combat is his regard
for innocents and his desire to protect them. Is is suggested that his
situation remain unmodified for the present.

The Man in Black is : Kenneth Scroggins
Novus Ordo Seclorum * Annuit Caeptus * E Pluribus Unum
http://intlrel.soc.hawaii.edu/NWO/NWO.html
"Why did you make him BLACK?" "I wanted him to be perfect." -Ice Pirates
