Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller
From: The Man in Black <mib@cyberspace.org>
Subject: NWO PERSONNEL FILES #11-#14
X-Nntp-Posting-Host: global.soc.hawaii.edu
X-Xxmessage-Id: <ACB2DA2F1901C833@global.soc.hawaii.edu>
X-Xxdate: Tue, 24 Oct 1995 10:00:15 GMT
Organization: New World Order
X-Newsreader: Nuntius Version 1.2
Date: Wed, 25 Oct 1995 04:02:27 GMT

NWO PERSONNEL FILES #11 - #14

#11 Masker

Description: Masker is THE master of Disguise. He can appear as a child,
a woman or sometimes as an animal or unusual marauder. 

Mission Applicability: Masker is a HUMINT Infiltration Specialist. He is
the chief instructor for infiltration in the HUMINT Control Sector. 

Contact Data: HUMINT Control Sector (Masker is unavailable for missions)

Method of Operation: Masker is hardly ever utilized in the field,
claiming to be "retired". In actuality, he is occasionally dragged out to
perform especially delicate missions. Many agents were trained in the
fine art of infiltration by Masker, but do not realize exactly who
trained them (some are still wondering to this day). One notable
exception to this is the Chaperone (NWO PERSONNEL FILE #1) one of the
very few agents to see the Masker's true face.

Personality Profile: Masker is a grand illusionist, he revels in
deception of other people's senses. When not acting in a role, he often
does parlor tricks and sleight of hand. If he was not an agent for the
NWO he could be a world class stage magician. 


#12 Scorekeeper

Description: a pleasantly plump middle aged woman, red hair, blue eyes.

Mission Applicability: Scorekeeper is a Data Management Auditor(DMA) in
Administration. She rates NWO agents on mission performance, bureaucratic
accuracy and countless other minutiae. She only possesses :Black:
security clearance.

Contact Data: Performance Analysis Bureau (PAN)

Method of Operation: The scorekeeper feeds all her data into a master
analysis program at PAN. She then reports on areas which need improvement
and suggests solutions for efficiency. 

Personality Profile: The Scorekeeper is an extremely frustrated woman.
She feels that her job is clearly in need of security clearance upgrade.
Often she must enter incomplete or non-existant data into the Computer,
and of course "Garbage in, Garbage Out". Her mission efficency is a
pathetic 4.328% (+/-5% margin or error) due to her lowly security
clearance. Unfortunately all DMA's are security clearance :BLACK: and not
privy to much information.


#13 The Cookie Cutter [C2]

"C is for Cookie, that's good enough for me, C is for Cookie, C"
-Cookie Monster, Sesame Street 

Description: A thickly bearded man in his early forties. He always wears
prescription sunglasses and a Blue suit.

Mission Applicability: Mind Control Specialist (MCS), qualified to train.
(PSYWAR)

Contact Data: ::% CLASSIFIED $ STRING #::

Method of Operation: C2 uses psychological warfare prototype development
and neuropsychiatry treatment. C2 takes uncooperative elements and
renders them stable members of society. He has never failed in any of
these attempts, the only MCS to hold a 100% rating. He has developed the
Pharmaceutical Synthesis System Assembler, which tailors drugs to
individual neurochemistry. In conjunction with this device he also uses a
Kirlian Multimedia (Audio/Visual/Spirtual) Projection System to override
auras and impose a external and artificial pattern of thought onto his
victims. He has both portable and stationary facilities and can be
anywhere at a moment's notice, using Void Engine Gates or his personal
learjet.

Personality Profile: The Cookie Cutter likes people to be similiar in
thought and deed. He makes sure anyone who comes into his clutches leaves
a better person. They become just a little nicer, a little neater in
appearance, they care about others just a little more. C2 is a very
polite and kind soft-spoken individual and reminds people of Mr. Rogers
or Jim Henson. He treats everyone but certain Nephandi with respect and
expects them to be on their best behavior. He is often giving lectures on
inappropriate behavior when he sees it, and commands respect whever he
goes. On the side, he serves as a psychological consultant to children's
televison programs.


#14 QuickSwitch

Description: a very plain individual in his early thirties, brown hair,
bright brown eyes, pleasant smile. Blends in with the crowd.

Mission Applicability: QuickSwitch is a courier (HUMINT Physical
Transmission Specialist) He is an expert automobile driver and acrobat.
He is qualified in firearms and hand to hand combat.

Contact Data: The HUMINT control in your sector can contact QuickSwitch.

Method of Operation: QS makes dropoffs and pickups of sensitive
materials. He speaks many languages and operates virtually every known
type of vehicle (land sea or air). He is known among black marketeers,
arms dealers, and espionage agencies as a trustworthy freelancer who
doesn't mind risking his life.

Personality Profile: QS is an adrenaline junkie, he lives for excitement
and has a daredevil attitude. He craves danger and is just waiting on
edge for his contact to turn on him so he can snatch, grab and getaway.
His thrill seeking causes him to seek out questionable contacts and when
they try to rip him off, he turns the tables and rips them off with a
laugh and a smile. He views himself as a modern day swashbuckler and has
a large collection of antique rapiers.

The Man in Black is : Kenneth Scroggins
Novus Ordo Seclorum * Annuit Caeptus * E Pluribus Unum
http:// SOON MOVING OFF A MAC AND ONTO A FAST UNIX! WOO! HOO!
"The American people can have a Model T in any color they want,
 as long as it's Black"- Henry Ford
