Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
From: The Man in Black <mib@cyberspace.org>
Subject: NWO PERSONNEL FILES #11-#20
X-Nntp-Posting-Host: global.soc.hawaii.edu
X-Xxmessage-Id: <ACB3DC807A02C833@global.soc.hawaii.edu>
X-Xxdate: Wed, 25 Oct 1995 04:22:24 GMT
Organization: New World Order
X-Newsreader: Nuntius Version 1.2
Date: Wed, 25 Oct 1995 22:24:35 GMT

NWO PERSONNEL FILES #15 - #20

#15 The Insider

Description: A tall attractive woman with black hair and green eyes. Her
age is indeterminate, but could be from late twenties to early forties.

Mission Applicability: The Insider is the North American OverSector
(NAOS) Regional Commander. She represents the USA on the World Advisory
Council with Dr. Emil Zotos (the Magic Czar-see Project : Twilight for
more detail).

Contact Data: NAOS HQ (insider@hq.naos.nwo.org)

Method of Operation: The Insider has risen through the ranks over a
period of 37 years, she is, like many high ranking Technomancers, much
older than she looks. She awakened in 1974 while serving on the
Trilateral Commission and has since been involved in suppressing reality
deviance. Previous to service on the Trilateral Commission she was
developing and contracting cryptographic technology to the highest
bidder, and continued this work with the NWO. Eventually she was placed
in charge of SIGINT for NAOS and rose to NAOS Command. She is typically
surrounded by several elite Men in Black and Hit Marks. (Rumor Control
(FILE #19) suggests that she has an experimental Hyper Intelligence VII
on her bodyguard). Agents have seen her break several "unbeatable" codes
at first glance.

Personality Profile: The Insider is a family woman (her husband and kids
are under tight but covert security). She is a good mother (when she is
home) and her husband thinks she works for a defense contractor. On the
job she can be completely ruthless and efficient when a crisis develops,
but usually follows a progressive style of leadership (*not* management).


#16 SenseHawk

Description: A short stocky bald man, prominent roman nose, usually wears
tiny round little shades. 

Mission Applicability: SenseHawk is a Urban Surveillance Specialist
(SIGINT/URSUR) and works best with a well armed backup team for
elimination or extraction. 

Contact Data: SIGINT Urban Surveillance Office. (URSUR)

Method of Operation: SenseHawk utilizes a fully loaded stealth van
equipped with telescopic cameras, thermographic imaging, laser listening
microphones, parabolic receivers, tempest gear, blueboxing equipment,
full spectrum recievers, jamming/spoofing broadcasters, and a wet bar. He
has a knack for good timing and is often in the right place at the right
time.

Personality Profile: A angry harsh man, he shuns social discourse and
spends his off hours drinking heavily. His latent alcoholism has yet to
interfere with his job, but may compromise him during downtime. He once
worked as a private detective and was married to a Cult of Ecstasy Mage,
but his wife turned barabbi and attempted to murder him and his daughter.
He spontaneously awakened and destroyed her with dynamic forces magick,
but was unable to save the life of his daughter. The Masker (FILE #11)
recruited him soon after (in a disguise of course)


#17 The Stripe Artist

Description: A towering muscular woman, thirtyish, short auburn hair,
blue eyes. 6'8" 

Mission Applicability: Demolitions and Engineering Specialist (CIVINT).
Also a Hand to Hand Combat Instructor.

Contact Data: Civil Intelligence Bureau (CIB)

Method of Operation: The Stripe Artist relies on shaped charge explosives
to produce property damage on a large scale. Her command of state of the
art experimental explosives, combined with her knowledge of structural
weaknesses and combusible physics makes her invaluable to any demolitions
operation. The codename Stripe Artist comes from the fact that most of
her most effacious explosions use a matrix of braided explosive "stripes."

Personality Profile: The Stripe Artist is a get down to business, no
nonsense professional. She says little to her co-workers and spends her
off hours experimenting with more odd chemicals and reading trade
journals. If she wanted to she could probably build a small nuclear
device. The one thing in life she truly loves besides blowing things up
is her Black Irish Wolfhound - Monroe, a Progenitor breed.


#18 Navajo

Description: Native American Male, age 46, black hair and eyes. Average
height and weight.

Mission Applicability: Cryptoanalytical Technician (SIGINT) Expert
Marksman, HUMINT Infiltration Training by the Masker. Qualified for
Surveillance.

Contact Data: Signal Intelligence (SIGINT) Transmission Control Authority
Cryptographic Office.

Method of Operation: Navajo is a  multi-skilled individual who
specializes in dissonance with Order of Hermes linguistics. He disrupts
Deviant Rituals by using  sonic counter-harmonic algorythms. He also
intecepts and breaks codes used by OoH couriers.

Personality Profile: His father was a code-talker for the Army in WWII
and introduced him to the NWO. He often works with the Sensehawk (FILE
#16) in surveillance missions on OoH chantries. He also spends off hours
working for Native American Interest groups. He is being carefully
monitored for possible Garou sympathies.


#19 Rumor Control

Description: A attractive woman in her early thirties, blonde well-styled
hair and grey eyes. 

Mission Applicability: Media Control Specialist (PSYWAR) Qualified for
Data Analysis.

Contact Data: PSYWAR Media Bureau

Method of Operation: Rumor Control feeds lies to the credible and truth
to the non-credible. In this way she serves as a source of diinformation.
She also has some control over media content in her role as Producer for
a Certain News Network. 

Personality Profile: Rumor Control is a notorious gossip, but she
restrains her talk to NWO operatives. In this fashion suppressed events
have a way of getting out to NWO agents in Rumor Control's sector, and
spread thru the Technocracy from there. On more than one occassion this
has led to serendipitous successes and may be deliberate on her part.


#20 RedBranch

Description: A drop-dead gorgeous redhead.

Mission Applicability: Convention Relation Specialist (HUMINT) she
handles surplus technology elimination. Deals primarily with ITERATION-X
and $yndicate.

Contact Data: RedBranch can be reached via your HUMINT Control.

Method of Operation: Redbranch sells It-X and NWO obsolete technoilogy to
the $yndicate, and other interested parties. She has many contacts in the
Black Market and Arms Dealer world. Typically she uses QuickSwitch (FILE
#14) to make personal contact with buyers while she handles thing with
the sellers. 

Personality Profile: Redbranch is amoral and emotionless, but totally
reliable. To her, the most important thing is credibility, aquiring and
maintaining it. She uses her appearance to put people off guard and
manipulates everyone around her. She is an ideal operative for covert
intra-convention mission supervision.

The Man in Black is : Kenneth Scroggins
Novus Ordo Seclorum * Annuit Caeptus * E Pluribus Unum
http://intlrel.soc.hawaii.edu/NWO/NWO.html
"My skin may be white, but my heart is as BLACK as anyone's here"
