Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller
From: The Man in Black <mib@cyberspace.org>
Subject: NWO PERSONNEL FILE #5-#10
X-Nntp-Posting-Host: global.soc.hawaii.edu
X-Xxmessage-Id: <ACB1B8FF6F04C833@global.soc.hawaii.edu>
X-Xxdate: Mon, 23 Oct 1995 13:26:23 GMT
Organization: New World Order
X-Newsreader: Nuntius Version 1.2
Date: Tue, 24 Oct 1995 07:28:35 GMT

NWO PERSONNEL FILE #5

The Composer

Description: A nondescript man in his 30's Brown hair, blue eyes, average
height and weight. 

Mission Applicability: The Composer is a subliminal message technician.
He overides  local broadcasts with a carrier signal that embeds
subliminal messages into standard communications.

Contact Data: SIGINT Control Bureau

Method of Operation: The Composer travels in a large "stealth" van
equipped with pirate broadcast equipment. He prefers custom manufactured
goods from It-X robofactories. Upon recieving a mission assignment, the
composer spends 2-3 days devising a suitable subliminal signal to be
broadcast over a local area. He then sets up transmitters and recievers
at high altitudes around the area targetted (may require the aid of
several men in black for security). 

He then proceeds to blanket all transmission through the area with the
subliminal signal. This transmission can be tailored to specific
individuals, or affect any who are exposed to the signal equally. 

Personality Profile: The composer views his work as an art form. He is a
perfectionist and dedicated to detail and execution of his mission. He
has never failed a mission assignment and thus has a 100% efficiency
rating. The composer has a eclectic taste in music and produces his own
very odd compositions. (it is advised that listening to these
compositions may have unwarranted side effects)

NWO PERSONNEL FILE #6

The Long Lady

Description: A woman in her late twenties, Blond Hair, Grey eyes,
excellent physical condition.
 
Mission Applicability: The Long Lady is the most effective sniper in the
NWO. She was genetically engineered by the Progenitors (see file :1534:)
for just that purpose.  

Contact Data: Intelligence Analysts (G-22 or higher) may contact the Long
Lady thru the Sanction Control Office (SCOFF).

Method of Operation: Standard Sanction Control Procedures.

Personality Profile: The long lady is a interesting case study. She was
created by the progenitors to have a incredible lust for violence and
killing and yet remain completely loyal to the proper authorities. NWO
Mental Procedures have shown that her extraordinary temper only gets the
better of her when she is in contact with a sanctioned individual (or
mark). This strange two sided personality may lead to further difficulty
in the future, especially if she must sanction someone she has already
"imprinted" as *not* being a mark. 

NWO PERSONNEL FILE#7

The Theory King

Description: A robust caucasian male in his 60's, Salt and pepper hair,
beard and sunglasses.

Mission Applicability: The Theory King is in charge of the NWO
Information Bureau.

Contact Data: NWO Information Bureau

Method of Operation: The Theory King manages the NWO Database center and
all relevant computing systems and personnel. His methods of Infomation
Management have increased data retreval effeciency 3.776%

Personality Profile: The King likes to think of himself as a librarian,
keeping the information flowing to people who need it. He is one of the
best educated individuals in the world, holding multiple P.h.D's in a
variety of fields. He publishes his research in a number of journals
(including the Reality Criminal "Paradigma"). However, all his research
is simulated on the NWO Horizon1000 supercomputer and not tested in
"reality" This tends to lower his status in the scientific community.

NWO PERSONNEL FILE#8

Mr. Right

Description: The Man of your Dreams

Mission Applicability: Mr. Right is a HUMINT specialist who seduces
individuals with the intent of compromising them at a later date. He is a
disguise expert and qualified handgun instructor. He is able to perform
sanctions with a 63.23% rating.

Contact Data: The HUMINT operative in your sector can contact Mr. Right.

Method of Operation: Mr. Right shadows his "victim" for several days and
proceeds to insinuate himself into their lifestyle. Soon they come to
think of him as someone to be trusted and/or an object of desire. He
always insures incriminating evidence of sexual misconduct is available
and is prepared to betray his mark at any time.

Personality Profile: Mr. Right is a amoral sociopathic hedonist, he is
bisexual and was once a member of the Reality Criminal Cult of Ecstasy.
He was forcibly converted to the Technocracy by the Cookie Cutter (see
upcoming NWO PERSONNEL FILES). The degree of compromise is very high for
this agent and he should not be used for  missions which relate to the
Nephandi.

NWO PERSONNEL FILE#9

??????? The Questioneer ???????

Description: A thin angular-faced individual in his late thirties. Black
hair, Green Eyes

Mission Applicability: The Questioneer is a HUMINT Interogation
Specialist. He is available for indepth or cursory investigations.

Contact Data: The local HUMINT control in your sector can contact the
Questioneer.

Method of Operation: The Questioneer uses the latest technology to sift
the brains of individual who withold information from the NWO. He prefers
to have prisoners sent to his neuropsychiatric facility in the
Appalachian mountains for indepth questioning. For cursory examinations,
he relies on local facilities along with some of his portable equipment
and drugs. He makes individuals question their very beliefs in order to
make them divulge information. 

Personality Profile: The Questioneer is relentless, during questioning he
takes Neuroamplifiers to remain awake until the questioning is over. An
obsessive type, he rarely breaks long enough for meals or social
discourse. He is not sadistic but will cause pain if he deems it
necessary. He is a firm believer in the Socratic dialogue and will
incessantly pester operatives he works with.

NWO PERSONNEL FILE#10

The Murder Maker (M&M)

Description: M&M never appears the same way twice.

Mission Applicability: Head of the Sanction Control Office (SCOFF)

Contact Data: SCOFF

Method of Operation: M&M is reclusive and unseen. He or She operates from
behind the scenes and usually has subordinates attend any necessary
symposiums or meetings. This individual has the capability to judge ANY
member of the NWO as "unfit for service" (Pending approval from the
Central Command Authority) and will take immediate and direct action
should this unfortunate conclusion be reached.

Personality Profile: M&M seems to have a very ironic sense of humor if
one takes the time to read SCOFF internal memos. It is likely that M&M is
more than one individual and the constant puns in the SCOFF messages are
in fact some sort of internal code. Cryptography is however, reluctant to
work on such matters.

The Man in Black is : Kenneth Scroggins
Novus Ordo Seclorum * Annuit Caeptus * E Pluribus Unum
http://global.soc.hawaii.edu/NWO/NWO.html
