Date: Sun, 13 Nov 1994 14:54:30 -0800 (PST)
From: Brant Andrew Harvey <bharvey@gladstone.uoregon.edu>
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Subject: Paradigma: Oneirokinesis
Message-ID: <Pine.SOL.3.91.941113123719.8611A-100000@gladstone>

[Being a good little SoE, I went out and bought the Tradition book.  Yes,
it was wonderful, and possessed both genuine personality and a number of
bright (and weird) ideas, but it was insufficient.  This is to be
expected--if White Wolf did everything, what would we need a mailing list
for?] 
[So, I'm submitting a Paradigma article on one of the many things I
think needs to be explored further in the SoE.  Comments, complaints,
additions, and dissenting opinions are encouraged.  Hell, see if you can
keep them "in character."]

Oneirokinesis in Theory and Practice
Dr. Eliza Goldsmith

In the views of certain Technocratic investigators of the mind, dreams are
mere mental hiccups, neurological spasms without meaning, much less power. 
Those "scientists" within the Consensus who disagree with this theory
still go no further than to expound on the symbolic importance of dreams. 
We of Science can go further still.  

Etheric Science knows of the true power of dreams.  Through electronic
devices, we can cause dreams to be displayed on a monitor, to facilitate
study.  I personally have connected my own mind with a dreaming one, and
immersed myself in those dreams, participating in them and interacting
with the dreamer.  Though this is nothing more than an illusion, the
effect is still dramatic and convincing to the Scientist involved.  And
there are even those who claim that our dreams take on a life of their own
in the infinite worlds beyond the mathematically induced veil of
single-state reality.  Though I have not been able to confirm the stories
of these brave Ethernauts personally, I believe that we can allow the
copious evidence to stand on its own. 

There is still another dimension to be explored in the study of dreams.  I
have found that a dreaming mind creates an actual, measurable force, which
I call oneirokinesis.  Oneirokinesis can actually be converted to
electricity, allowing a machine to be powered on dreams alone! This is not
without consequences.  It seems that, as oneirokinetic energy is utilized,
the dreams themselves are lost.  Subjects reported that they could not
remember dreaming, and, over extended periods of oneirokinetic draining,
begin to display personality changes.  Imagination and compassion
withered; the subjects began to behave in an inhuman, mechanical manner. 
In short, without dreams, people become Technomancers. 

This Science is not entirely without benefit, however.  Just as
oneirokinetic energy can be converted to electrical energy, so can the
reverse be true.  With nothing more than a simple device and a wall
socket, dreams can be intensified!  The results of oneirokinetic
intensification cannot be understated.  If dreams are what provide us with
imagination, personality, and creative ability, those aspects of the self
most important to Science, then intensifying dreams can only improve a
Scientist.  And if this Science were to become accepted by the Consensus,
then more might Awaken to become Scientists!  In short, through
oneirokinetic technology, we can change the world! 

[Here are a few rotes associated with oneirokinetic Science:]
[Oneirovideo (Mind 3, Forces 2): Displays a subject's dreams on a 
monitor.  This traditionally involves a bulky helmet with wires leading 
to a television set.]
[Oneirocerebric Linkage (Mind 3): Allows a Scientist to enter and 
participate in a subject's dreams.  This is an entirely mental process, 
and will not result in physical effects to either dreamer or Scientist.  
Well, not usually, anyway.  This traditionally involves a pair (or more) of 
bulky helmets linked by wires.]
[Oneirokinetic Conversion (Mind 3, Forces 2): This can either convert 
oneirokinetic energy to electricity, or vice versa.  The effects of this 
are totally subjective and up to the GM, but it's probably a good way to 
get the Chantry tangled up in Chimerae politics.  This traditionally 
involves a bulky helmet (surprise!) with lots of wires.]

[Brant Harvey, occasional Chimera]
