From nv91-asa@neva.nada.kth.se Sat Sep 10 20:27:56 1994
Date: Sat, 10 Sep 1994 18:26:40 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Order of Hermes Pardigm (again)
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9409101840.A9089-0100000@hemul.nada.kth.se>

This is yet another writeup of the hermetic paradigm, based on the 
Aristotelian theory of the True Forms. I post it on behalf of 
H.B.DesChenes, whop wrote most of it (I added the bit about Spirit, Time 
and Arete on the end). 

[Strictly speaking, it is the Platonic theory of True Forms]

Date: Sun, 4 Sep 94 16:54:30 -0500
From: hdeschen@lonestar.utsa.edu (Howard B. Des Chenes  )
Message-Id: <9409042154.AA23269@lonestar.utsa.edu>
To: nv91-asa@nada.kth.se
Subject: Re: Order of Hermes Paradigm
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
In-Reply-To: <NV91-ASA.94Sep1135322@eufrat.nada.kth.se>
Organization: University of Texas at San Antonio
Content-Length: 3451

Many members of The Order of Hermes put great stock in the Platonic
concept of Forms. In this paradigm, there exists a world of ideal Forms,
where every concept exists in its entirety as a tangible thing. Good,
Evil, Beauty, Dog, Social Contract, Redness, Pi, the number 5 all exist as
Forms, not representations of such ideas. Their magick would reflect such
belief. 

Correspondence:
The world exists as representations of true Forms of ideas (consensual
reality, sorta), and Sympathetic magick works through relations to these
Forms. A model of a place aids in scrying the worldy location by accessing
it's Form. The more alike two things are, the closer they exist in ideal
Form. The world of the Form is the Correspondence Point. 

Entropy:
Entropy is the force that breaks down the ideal Form to the less than
ideal reality. Randomness and decay diffuse Forms into representations the
way a prism separates pure light. Entropy is also a manifestation of the
ideal Lack of Form, or Nothingness. It opposes the Forms and the Primum
Mobile. It does provide everchanging possibilities, and infinite
variations of an individual Form. 

Forces:
The forces of nature empower the Forms, and are the most sublime
representation of the Primum Mobile. Forces, as one of the Pattern
Magicks, is both a building block and a product of the Forms. Forces
animate what would otherwise be a stagnant world. As the purest expression
of the Prime Mover, Forces are among the most powerful spheres, and have
profound direct effects on physical objects, and are most likely the key
to understanding the True Forms and the Prime Mover. 

Life: 
This is the most intricate synthesis of the Pattern Magicks, existing
somewhere between Forces and Matter. The Order of Hermes are skilled in
healing magicks, as they can conceive of the ideal Form of a living body,
and bring the representation of such a body closer to it. However, by
working in the opposite direction, strange, mutated creatures can be
conjured, or horrible wounds can be inflicted (with the assistance of
Entropy in order to bring the body away from the ideal Form.)

Matter:
Matter is the simplest of Pattern Magicks. After one learns of the Forms
of physical objects, They can be created or modified with ease. The
Scientific "Laws" of Conservation oppose the Order's beliefs of matter;
thus Matter magi remain subject to great paradox flaws and backlashes.
Note that physical objects can be restored by viewing thier ideal Form, as
described in Life. 

Mind:
Mind is the tool that allows one to percieve the Forms. The realm of Forms
is infinite, and all thought exists there as a tangible thing.  (vide
Mount Qaf of the Ahl-i-Batin. I assume that OoH mages are desperately
searching for the Realm of Forms somewhere in the Tellurian.) The Order
disputes the possibility of the Mind being responsible for the existance
of the Forms, or if the world of the Form would exist without the Mind.
Either way, it still allows for a consensual reality, albeit a limited
concept of one. 

Prime: See Primum Mobile in any philosophical text.

Spirit: 
Spirits are beings closer to the Forms. That doesn't make them holier,
they are just more pure than humans who are trapped far from the Forms.
Demons are closer to the Forms of Evil and Imbalance, while Angels are
closer to Good and elementals to the Forms of their Elements. The same is
true for the various Realms, which are intermediate levels of existence
between the World of Illusions and the pure Forms. It is possible, but
unlikely, that there could be beings and realms even further away from the
Forms. One such realm would be the Digital Web, which is essentially one
big illusion. 

Time:
The Form of Time is one of the most powerful forces in our world, holding
absolute dominion over everything material. It is one of the greatest
illusions, making us percieve the world as changing while it really is the
product of the immovable Forms. By learning the sphere of Time, a mage can
manipulate this illusion and the temporal ordering of the physical forms. 


In this paradigm, Arete represents the understanding of the Forms a mage
has achived. The better understanding, the greater power and also greater
self-insight. The Avatar is simply the Form of the mage, which seeks to
guide him back into purity by showing him the nature of the world and
teaching him valuable lessons. 

					H.B.DesChenes

					A. Sandberg (Spirit, Time and Arete)



-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




