From: Ryan Gracey <rgracey@mail.foxnet.net>
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: MAGE: Orphans Themes and Ideas
Date: 5 Aug 1995 22:30:27 GMT
Organization: Foxnet Communications, a Division of Foxtec Computer Systems
NNTP-Posting-Host: rgracey.foxnet.net

Here is a file I've been working on on-and-off for a little while. Even though I don't consider
it finished, I thought some might find it interesting.


Orphans: Themes and Ideas

      The Orphan is a loner. He was brought into power by his own will, and this
independence is a keystone of his Awakened being.

      The Skeptic considers the following of a specific paradigm to be pointless and
unnecessary. He considers Orphans to be the only true Magi as they are able to warp 
reality without having to subscribe to another's beliefs. Most Skeptics are of the Static
Essence -- although unhindered by another's beliefs, they are often trapped by their own
unwillingness to learn from others.
      The Jack feels that being an orphan is a gift; he can freely partake in the various
teachings of the world and reject those his dislikes. The Jack will commonly learn what
he considers the most useful teachings of any group, such as Do or Computer Skills.
However, since his training tends to be cut short, he lacks the deeper meaning of most
teachings and cannot access the highest levels of thought. Most Jacks are Dynamic
Essences -- easily conforming to learn more.
      The Seeker is an Orphan who sees his place in the world as unique, since he
understands belief builds reality. However, he tries to find what the deeper meaning of
it all is -- what is the true nature of reality? The Seeker looks for the meanings behind
everything, and tends to be quite philosophical. While subscribing to no one else's
paradigm, he knows that they are all "right." Typically, Seekers are looking for their own
place in the world. Seekers are, of course, Questing Essences.
      The Fated feels that they are Orphans because they play a part in some Larger 
Scheme. They do not know the players, they don't know the stakes, but they DO know
that they are vitally important, and as such feel that their Avatars are likely to keep
playing important roles in time. The Fated believe that they have been playing their roles
since the fragmenting of the Pure Ones, and that each incarnation of their Avatar will 
have similar destinies. The Fated even think that some of their previous incarnations may
occasionally have belonged a Tradition. The Fated are mostly of the Primordial Essence.

      Orphans tend to define roles for themselves in Awakened society. Since they do
not have a Tradition to help guide their actions, they tend to be more aligned with their
Nature. They will usually be very passionate about their "cause", even to the extremes
that Tradition members may feel to their paradigms. Common causes:

      Guardians: These Orphans feel that their power comes with a responsibility to the
Sleeper world. Because they are Self-Awakened, they remember their mundane lives 
much more readily and will keep their attachment to it. Guardians' objectives may vary,
depending on the level of knowledge about the supernatural they have. Some Guardians
are zealous in their defence of Sleepers against supernatural foes; others are content with
becoming a vigilante and trying to ease life for the common man. However, no small 
number of Guardians watch over other things. A large group of Orphans (perhaps second
only to the Hollow Ones in size) is dedicated to preserving and guiding their own kind.
They do this by attempting to locate and assist new Orphans and avoid having them join
a Tradition/Convention. This Freeborn League is detailed later.

      Mercenaries: These Orphans offer their services to other groups for pay. Orphans
are perhaps the favoured agents among both the Technocracy and the Traditions because
they are expendable, relatively cheap, and usually highly skilled. However, other groups
such as the Camarilla and the various Garou tribes have been known to hire Orphans, 
especially since they know they owe no loyalty to anyone but themselves and their current
employer.

      Manipulators: Many Orphans feel that they, standing in the unique position they
occupy, are at an advantage. They do not have to answer to the Council of Nine, or the
Conventions, or anyone else. These Orphans will be constantly studying the subtle
applications of their power. After all, Paradox forces mages to work subtle effects, so 
why shouldn't the rest of their lives be the same? Manipulators will generally choose a
target for their work and stay with them until they have exhausted their possibilities or
grown tired. Then, they move on. Many manipulators have close ties with Kindred
society. Naturally, it pays to learn from the masters..

      Explorers: Being an Orphan allows one to see that much of reality is hidden behind
a veil of ignorance. Explorers consider their Awakening the first step on the road to
understanding the true forces behind the scenes. They are voracious eaters of knowledge,
and are known to stick their noses where it may not be wise. Explorers are constantly
trying to understand their compatriots in Awakening, and this includes such beings as
Vampires and Werewolves. Many Explorers can make a living working as a consultant
on all the affairs of the supernatural, but for the most part, an Explorer will choose one
specialty and stick with it. An accomplished Explorer may, for instance, know more
about the workings of the Camarilla than many of its members.

      Teachers: Some Orphans feel that it is their duty to take an active part in
promoting the Ascension. They do this a number of ways, from actually assisting likely
people to Awaken to promoting beliefs in the occult. The wisest Teacher will tread lightly
and act as the þwise old manþ, but newer Teachers may get themselves into trouble by
being overzealous and revealing themselves to the Technocracy. 


Comments? Please reply.
