From: erikred@soda.CSUA.Berkeley.EDU (Erik Nielsen)
Subject: (Long) Verbena: Out on a Limb
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf,rec.games.frp.storyteller
Date: 10 Jan 1997 23:17:03 -0800
Organization: UC Berkeley Computer Science Undergraduate Organization
Path: news.kth.se!solace!nntp.uio.no!news.radio.cz!CESspool!news-feed.inet.tele.dk!enews.sgi.com!news.sgi.com!howland.erols.net!agate!not-for-mail
Lines: 299
Message-ID: <5b7epf$lo@soda.CSUA.Berkeley.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: soda.csua.berkeley.edu
Xref: news.kth.se alt.games.whitewolf:90348 rec.games.frp.storyteller:51518


[Over the past few weeks, the question of what Tradition one 
would awaken into has been bantered around 
alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller.  I've 
maintained that one's Tradition has more to do with who 
recruited you than one's own wishes.  This piece is the first 
(hopefully) of a series on various Tradition-oriented 
recruitment programs.  Use, abuse, copy, modify, and have fun 
with it.]

The Verbena have been around almost as long as humans have 
been walking upright, but this proud old heritage has not 
made the recruitment of younger members an easy task.  
Indeed, as the Conventions have become more powerful and more 
successful in promoting technology and science as the 
panaceas for the world's ills, young people are more likely 
to view the Verbena Craft as too simplistic or savage for the 
modern world.  Some of the more old school Verbena are quite 
willing to accept this attitude on the part of the youth; 
they believe that true Verbena are born, not recruited.  Some 
of the more liberal Verbena, though, have become worried over 
the shocking decrease in Verbena numbers.  To help bridge the 
gap between today's wayward youth and the almost primeval 
Verbena Craft, some of these new school Verbena have stepped 
up their recruitment efforts.

One of the Verbena's most successful recruiting programs has 
been the Out on a Limb Program.  Designed by a former inner 
city High School Counselor, the Out on a Limb camps take a 
certain number of troubled students from inner city schools 
out to summer camps in the Rocky Mountains.  Over the next 
six weeks, the students are broken into groups of nine where 
they learn basic survival skills and take part in self-
confidence and teamwork building exercises.  The most popular 
of these exercises involves falling backwards from an 
elevated platform into the arms of one's teammates.  Each 
group is led by a Verbena (or Verbena acolyte) facilitator 
and three peer counselors (each of whom is a graduate from a 
previous Out on a Limb camp); extensive effort is focused on 
building a can-do spirit in the participants, but no one is 
forced to participate.

The first two weeks of each camp are usually a tense time; 
some of the participants are members of rival gangs, and 
racial tensions sometimes run high.  The staff work to 
circumvent these problems, however, by using peer counseling 
and a little Mind magick to smooth things out.  By the end of 
the two weeks, most of the participants are fairly willing to 
work together; those who are not are at least usually content 
not to disturb the fun of the others.  Given the small 
numbers in each team, the peer counselors are able to give a 
good deal of attention to each participant, and even the hard 
cases tend to get into the spirit of the thing within a 
month.

During the day, the participants are kept busy learning and 
doing; as the participants are expected to help with cooking, 
preparing, and cleaning, they have very little idle time.  At 
night, everyone gathers around large campfires to tell 
stories of the days' activities or to sing songs.  Some of 
these songs and activities, like herb gathering or the nature 
hikes, are based on Verbena Craft and lore, but the 
facilitators take great care not to overdo it.  The camps are 
genuinely for the inner city kids.

The recruitment part of the camps actually takes place after 
the participants leave.  Every year, some promising former 
participants are invited back as peer counselors; these 
candidates are the ones who reacted well to the more Verbena 
aspects of their camps.  These counselors arrive two weeks 
before the participants and receive a rather exhausting crash 
course in first aid, counseling, and survival; their energy 
levels are kept up through herbal infusions and liberal, 
coincidental uses of Life magick.  At night, the counselors 
also gather around campfires to tell stories and sing songs, 
but this time, the facilitators tell much more Verbena-
oriented stories.  After the six week camp, the counselors 
stay another two weeks, learning even more sophisticated 
means of survival, interpersonal communication, and first-
aid; they are unknowingly also given subtle magickal aptitude 
tests by the facilitators.  Those few who pass these tests 
are put into a special group which is taught by the oldest 
(or wisest) Verbena at the camp.  At the end of the two 
weeks, the counselors head back to school.

Of course, two weeks is hardly enough time to fully 
indoctrinate new Verbena, so those students who reacted 
sympathetically to the Verbena lore and did well on the 
aptitude tests are marked for return invitations the next 
year.  Those counselors who both possessed a high magickal 
aptitude and have finished high school are given the option 
of staying in the Rockies until December; those who choose 
not to are allowed to return home, whereas those who choose 
to stay enter the next stage of Verbena recruitment.

By the time a counselor has both passed the aptitude tests 
and worked through one (or even two) camps, she probably has 
an inkling of what her teachers believe in.  The next few 
months are a delicate tap-dance as the Verbena attempt to 
ease their new potential recruits into the full-fledged 
Verbena mindset.  The facilitators and their potential 
recruits from all of the various Out on a Limb camps hike 
deep into the Rockies to a well-hidden Verbena enclave.  At 
this camp, they are given classes in Verbena philosophy and 
cosmology (usually thinly disguised as a Wicca-like nature 
worship) as well as more metaphysical classes on becoming 
close to nature and what it means to truly live.  The Verbena 
who run this uber-camp boast a ninety-nine percent success 
rate in converting potential recruits over to Verbena Craft 
or loyal Verbena Acolytes; those unfortunate few who balk at 
the last moment have their minds wiped and are dumped at bus 
stations miles away with just enough money to get home.

The climax of the camp is the feast of Samhaine.  At this 
time, those recruits the teachers plan to Awaken are 
separated from the others; those whose Awakenings are viewed 
as doubtful or even dangerous are put into a deep sleep.  The 
initiates are given a large feast and then stripped of their 
clothes and told to run for their lives.  They are given a 
half an hour head start, following which they are hunted by 
the Coven.  When they are caught, they are symbolically 
killed, which often entails real massive bodily damage; this 
damage is, of course, healed immediately afterwards.  The 
resultant shock of betrayal, utter terror and ultimate 
bloodlust as the initiate fights to hold onto life with every 
power at her disposal leads to a violent and complete death 
and rebirth into Awakening.

Following Samhaine, the newly Awakened Verbena are relocated 
to other covens around the world, where they are taught the 
ways of the Verbena and magick in more detail.  Those who 
could not Awaken just yet but are totally sympathetic to the 
Verbena worldview are welcomed as Acolytes; they often also 
relocate to wherever they may be needed.

The following Spring, of course, the camps are cleared of 
their winter snow and prepared for the next batch of 
participants and possible recruits.

==================================================
[What follows is a character background wherein the idea for 
the Verbena camp first took root.  Some of the details have 
been changed, but I think the feel is much better expressed 
here.]
==================================================

Although the actual Out on a Limb camp was, in fact, an 
outreach program designed to reach and turn city kids from 
possible criminals into people with hope and something to 
live for, the peer counseling program had been designed and 
run by a small Verbena cabal.  The camp provided them with 
excellent screening and recruiting facilities, and the 
legitimacy of the program provided an excellent cover for 
their anti-Technocratic activities.  The first step was the 
Out on a Limb camp, a screening process.  The second step was 
the counseling program, designed to feel out possible 
recruits for magickal aptitude and the right attitude.  The 
program focused on survival skills as well as counseling 
skills; even if the potential recruits weren't apprentice 
material, they left the camp with a distinctly hopeful and 
confident attitude which translated into more anti-
Technocratic activities.

Brian's group was unusual, in that three of the thirteen 
counselors actually ended up being recruited into the 
Verbena, including Brian.  The thirteen counselors were 
broken up into separate groups of twos and threes and were 
assigned to actual camp staff, those who would really be 
running the camp.  They had two weeks of training, mostly in 
first aid and crisis management.  At night, they would gather 
around the fire and tell stories and sing songs.  The camp 
staff, the cabal, worked a little magick into the night's 
festivities to see who would react to it.  At the end of the 
week, a much tighter unit, the counselors were ready for the 
six week-long camp.  Although the counselors had their hands 
full taking care of the participants, their nights were again 
taken up with the songs and stories, which became more and 
more Verbena oriented as the camp progressed.  By the time 
the participants had graduated and returned, the lore of the 
Verbena had become second-nature for the participants, 
although most of them would never have recognized it as 
actual lore; to ten of the thirteen, the songs and tales were 
campfire material.  To Brian and two others, the songs and 
tales had struck a chord.

After the participants left, the program became more 
rigorous.  The counselors were taught basic survival and 
foraging skills.  Brian and his two magickally apt 
colleagues, Mary and Rachel, were relocated into a separate 
group of their own, where they could be free to ask questions 
about the disturbing dreams they'd been experiencing and the 
strong resonance they'd been feeling when reciting or singing 
the lore.  While most of the other groups' education focused 
on self-reliance, Brian's group's staff member, a veteran 
Verbena named Dawn, instructed the group on more metaphysical 
matters.  She interpreted their dreams and told them bits of 
lore that were more secret than the campfire songs and tales 
the others had been told.  As a result, Brian's group became 
very close-knit, but started to drift away from the other 
groups.  And while both Mary and Rachel were curious about 
the tales Dawn had to tell, Brian began to feel that this was 
the reason he had been led here; he began to feel that this 
was where he belonged, where his destiny was leading him.  

Brian and Rachel, both young and from similar backgrounds, 
fell in love; Mary seemed more occupied with the wildlife 
than romance.  All three, though, shared dreams that told of 
things to come and things that had been.  

Time passed and the dreams became more intense and more real; 
in Brian's case, they sometimes became hard to distinguish 
from reality.  Dawn respected these fugues, as she suspected 
that they were manifestations of Brian's lightly slumbering 
Avatar; the other Verbena were beginning to remark on the 
seeming strength this unsuspecting youth possessed.  Summer 
passed into fall and the Rockies became colder; the first 
snows were not far away.  At the end of September, the other 
groups were sent home with promises of coming back the next 
year or joining other camps.  Brian, Rachel, and Mary stayed.  
When the other counselors had gone, the cabal closed up the 
camp and hiked deep into the mountains, foraging and hunting 
and living off the land.  The three new recruits, not quite 
Acolytes but not exactly untouched anymore, were required to 
pull their own weight.  Relying on their own bodies and 
teamwork, the three learned what it meant to really live.

The cabal made camp deep in the wilderness, well away from 
hunters, hermits, and nature lovers.  They spent the time 
teaching the three youngsters the lore they would need.  Some 
taught herbalism, others tracking and hunting, still other 
meditation and philosophy.  By October 31, Samhaine, Brian 
had gone from a street kid struggling for another chance at 
life to a confident, brave follower of nature's ways.  What 
had seemed strange and frightening before seemed wondrous and 
exciting.  And then, that night, as the sun went down and 
Brian felt prepared for whatever could happen, the cabal 
prepared them for their final lesson.  Their clothes were 
stripped from them, and they were given an hour's head start 
before the cabal began hunting them, a re-enactment of Herne 
and the Wild Hunt.

Excitement turned to fear, and pride turned to ashes as Brian 
leapt and lurched, nearly blind, through the freezing, pitch-
black woods.  Rachel and Mary ran off in separate directions 
in the hope that the cabal would only follow one of them at a 
time.  The woods gave way to a freezing stream which Brian 
traveled until his feet became numb; then he doubled back, 
but this time on the other side.  His fear and adrenaline 
fought back his weariness as what seemed like hours slipped 
past.  Just when he thought he'd run himself into the ground, 
he heard the mad cry of the cabal, and his weariness turned 
to frenzy.  They were closing in on him, and the woods would 
not protect him much from their savage pursuit.

Suddenly he broke free of the trees and tumbled down a steep 
embankment and fell into a freezing but shallow river.  He 
sputtered his way to the surface, and, at that moment, the 
clouds that had hidden the moon parted, and the full moon 
shone down on him, revealing his pursuers breaking out of the 
woods on all sides of him, their eyes glowing red, their 
knives flashing in the moonlight, yet covered in blood from 
recent kills.  Brian knew then that Rachel and Mary were 
dead, and that he was next, and he threw back his head and 
howled out his soul, a howl that shook the trees and made his 
pursuers pause.  And drawing on his own will to live, his 
refusal to accept a futile death either on the streets of his 
home town or here, skyclad, knee-deep in freezing water, and 
his grief at the deaths of his teammate and the woman he 
loved, he called out to the Wyck, to the moon, to life 
itself, and let the magick of the woods reshape him.

He stood before the cabal, a hundred and seventy pound well-
muscled wolf, and howled his rage.  They howled with him, and 
then fell on him, their knives flashing.  As their knifes 
tore into him, he howled once more, and then became himself.  
They picked him up out of the river (itself a node, though he 
hadn't known it), and laid him out on the bank.  He came to a 
moment later as they lay their hands and herbs on him.  He 
watched with a kind of shocked complacency as his wounds 
became scratches and then merely scars and pucker marks and 
then disappeared altogether.  But beyond his flesh he could 
see the patterns being woven back together.  He could see the 
patterns that made up the cabal, both their own patterns and 
the patterns they had forged between themselves.  He could 
see each person's true forms, not simply their earthly 
manifestations, but their spirits, their essences.  And he 
opened his mouth and howled again, but this time with joy at 
the life he had been reborn into.  And the cabal, including 
Rachel and Mary, who had died and been reborn as well, howled 
with him.

[End]


-- 
"To sleep perchance to dream, Ay, there's the rub;
 for in that sleep of death, what dreams may come
 when we have shuffled off this mortal coil must
 give us pause...."	The Bard, waxing poetic...
