
From server@wizards.com Tue Oct 19 05:30:25 1993
Received: from walker.u.washington.edu by mail.nada.kth.se (5.61-bind 1.4+ida/nada-mx-1.0)
	id AA25040; Tue, 19 Oct 93 05:30:23 +0100
Received: from ginkgo.omnigroup.com by walker.u.washington.edu
	(5.65/UW-NDC Revision: 2.29 ) id AA25412; Mon, 18 Oct 93 21:26:29 -0700
Received: from tapir.wizards.com by omnigroup.com (NX5.67d/NX3.0M)
	id AA05561; Mon, 18 Oct 93 21:26:23 -0700
Received: by wizards.com (NX5.67d/NX3.0M)
	id AA10196; Mon, 18 Oct 93 21:26:22 -0700
Date: Mon, 18 Oct 93 21:26:22 -0700
Message-Id: <9310190006.AA21550@corpse.ecst.csuchico.edu>
Comment: Mailing list for "Mage: the Ascension"
Originator: mage-l@wizards.com
Errors-To: netsec@wizards.com
Reply-To: mage-l@wizards.com
Sender: mage-l@wizards.com
Version: 5.5 -- Copyright (c) 1991/92, Anastasios Kotsikonas
From: Tom Talley <greyfire@ecst.csuchico.edu>
To: Multiple recipients of list <mage-l@wizards.com>
Subject: Theory of Paradox
Status: RO

I would like to present my take on what paradox is and how it effects
static and vulger magic.  I have been thinking this theory over during
the last few weeks and believe that this is an accurate description of
what is going on.  With no further ado.

Tom's Theory of Paradox!  ;)

To understand paradox we need to look at what situations cause paradox
points to accumulate.  According to the rules casting static spells,
vulger (with and without witnesses) spells, both will cause paradox 
points to accumulate.  Nothing else does though, and it should be 
noted that paradox spirits appear to be a seperate phenomena from 
paradox points.  

Interestingly the term paradox may be inapropriate at it more describes 
the side effects of accumulating paradox points than it does actual 
cause of paradox.  To find a consistant theory I started with the one 
case where by logic a Mage should not be able to accumulate paradox,
the Umbra.  The Umbra is in many ways a realm of chaos were the Mage may
impose her will on it without penalty.  I.e.  all spells cast by a Mage 
are treated by paradox as if they were static.  This makes sense in the 
Umbra there are no rules for the Mage to violate so paradox should not 
be invoked.  Ah, but I hear you going wait there is a case where a Mage
will gain Paradox in the Umbra.

This is the clue that reveils what paradox truely is.  The one case where
you can gain paradox in the umbra is if the Mage botches a spell.  No 
other way causes paradox to accumulate.  If you look at what happens when
a Mage gains paradox, you will find something interesting.  The paradox 
points go on the same track as Quintessence points.  Further paradox points 
can even prevent the gain of Quintessence if enough paradox points are 
gained.  

My theory is that paradox points are actually Quintessence points that 
are channelled into the mages avatar by mistake and that these points
can not be utilized by the mage in a deliberate manor.  Supporting this
theory is what happens both during quiet and when paradox points are 
burned.  If this accumulated quintessense is leaking out of the Mage
in a form of uncontrolled wild magic we see what is called burning
paradox.  Quiet on the other hand is more the raw quintessence leaking
into the mages perceptions and effecting the mages personal reality.

Now to see how the theory holds up when known examples of paradox gain
are studied.  If the Mage is in the Umbra where no rules but what the 
Mage chooses to impose govern, paradox is only gained during a botch.
If the Mage is in a realm, any realm, there are local laws or beliefs
governing that reality.  If the Mage chooses to cast a vulger spell 
he must violate the local "laws of reality" to do so.  

Here we can begin to get a better feel for how reality is built.  The 
Mage casts his vulger spell but because she is violating local reality
he must channel energy from somewhere.  At least part of this energy 
comes directly out of the local reality and becomes trapped in the 
Mages avatar.  This is were the 1 point of automatic paradox for vulger
without witnesses comes from.  It is now also possible to attract the 
attention of "paradox spirits" when this spell is being cast.  A more
likely explanation of the paradox spirit is that it is either an 
agent of the weaver or an aspect of the weaver seeking to maintain
the existing order.

If the Mage is standing before sleepers and casts a vulger spell, 
it is possible to gain even more paradox than any other case.  What
is going on here is that the sleepers act as locuses maintaining
the local realms laws.  Thus any attempt to violate local reality will
have even more realm energy that must be dealt with usually by having
it stuffed into your avatar in the form of paradox points.

More importantly it appears that the gaining of paradox points or 
raw quintessence whichever you care to call it is caused by fighting
the local reality.  Reality is actually quite flexible and willing to
help any Mage willing to work with it.  If the Mage determins an effect
that they would like to produce and feeds energy to the local reality.
[ie static or coincidental magic] Reality will activly aid the Mage 
by proforming feats well beyond the Mages power.

------------------------------------------------

Ok that ends the theory part lets see how well this works in practice.
I see a few nice features allready like it explains why Vampires, 
Werewolves, and the old Order of Hermes don't experience paradox.
Mages are the only being who work magic by rearranging reality, everone
else must use the powers that they can find within the local reality.
They trade the limitless power of a Mage for the assurance of continued
power. 

It also seperates Paradox from Paradox Spirits which looks like a very
good idea.  This way they are unrelated phenomena.  Paradox spirits are
either agents of the Weaver or aspects of the Weaver seeking to maintain
the local laws of reality.  The Weaver being a very ordered being.  I 
would suspect that a Mage with a large amount of paradox points (raw
quintessence) would stand out like a spotlight to such a spirit.  Also
the act of botching on a large scale would atract there attention.

>From the above observations I would probably do a few things different than
White Wolf does it.  Lets go to an old example of shapechanging into a 
dragon while inside a werehouse (vulger without witnesses).  Then going
outside before the city.  Most people are of the opinion that you would
start racking up paradox points.  From the above theory of paradox that
would not happen.  What would happen instead is a very good chance of 
attracting a very nasty Paradox spirit, unless you could provide one
hell of an explanation to it of cover (ie a bunch of friends around 
with movie cameras filming) the spirit would most likely fry you or 
something equally nasty.

Hmmm this would also cover the case of turning invisable and then going
out in public.  When you perfomed actions that people could not see any
cause for a paradox spirit would most likely be attracted to the site to
see what is going on.  Now for some reason these spirits don't really 
bother the garou or kin, but thats for a differen't theory to cover.

_______

Any comments, questions, flames :) welcome.

Tom Talley
greyfire@ecst.csuchico.edul
