From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Sun Dec  7 04:39:20 1995
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Path: news.kth.se!nntp.uio.no!Norway.EU.net!EU.net!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!usenet.ucs.indiana.edu!news.cs.indiana.edu!lynx.unm.edu!bubba.NMSU.Edu!daanders
From: daanders@nmsu.edu (Daniel P. Anderson)
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: Re: Paradox Spirits and Flaws - suggestions?
Date: 7 Dec 1995 04:39:20 GMT
Organization: New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM
Lines: 65
Message-ID: <4a5r5o$j11@bubba.NMSU.Edu>
References: <19951123.235901.31@hesperia.demon.co.uk> <DInruq.9Gy@news.uwindsor.ca> <49dj4b$ds0@comet.magicnet.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: verdi.nmsu.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

	I never liked the Paradox spirits (all of them were pretty goonie 
in my opinion) but you can have a lot (and I do mean a lot!) of fun with 
paradox flaws.

	For example:

	Forces/Mind/Correspondance: The character sees himself 
romantically involved with other characters (of either sex), NPCs, 
animals, etc. in every reflective surface he looks at.  This is 
especially appropriate if the character got his paradox fighting a Nephandus.
	Time: The character cannot, under any circumstances, be on time 
for an appointment.  This is especially fun if the character doesn't 
catch on to his flaw for a while (he's always stuck in traffic, there's 
always a line at the ATM, another big accident on the freeway, he got 
locked in a pay-toilet, etc.)
	Life: The character develops all the symptoms of being pregnant 
(male or female), and life scans indicate a life form growing inside the 
character.  It resists any form of tampering, magickal or otherwise, and 
the character finally gives birth after pain and hardship to a magickal 
beastie of some kind.  This is an especially interesting way of 
introducing a character to his Familiar.
	Correspondance: The character sees everything behind him instead 
of everything in front of him.  Alternately, he can only see things he 
isn't looking at.  For even greater fun, the character can only see 
things moving at speeds greater than 5 mph or objects at rest.
	Forces: The character perceives the spectrum out of order, 
switching colors pretty much at random on an hourly basis.  Or, he can no 
longer see one color at all.
	Entropy: The character can not break or reduce anything using 
mechanical processes.  In other words, it is impossible for him to sharpen 
pencils, chew his food, crack ice, or chip paint.  He can still effect 
things chemically (melting ice, digesting food, etc.) and can still 
imbibe liquids.  This will make life painful but interesting for the next 
few days.
	Matter: Any non-organic substance (metal, stone, possibly plastic 
if you want to be real cruel) adheres to the character's skin and can 
only be pulled off painfully, leaving a rash. Makes windy days real, real 
unfun and a trip to the beach downright miserable!
	Mind: Everyone (animal and person) feels the irresistable urge to 
stare at the character expressionlessly.  They will do so as long as the 
character is present.  They will still talk to and interact with the 
character, but they will constantly stare at him, unblinking.  Even the 
people on TV seem to do it.
	Spirit: The character randomly switches back and forth between 
perceiving the Umbra and the "real" world.  Note that not all objects 
exist normally in both planes, and this can make driving a car fun.
	Correspondance: The character loses small objects constantly.  
They always turn up within one hour of searching, but never where the 
character would normally expect them (his car keys in a vase, his wallet 
under the litter box, that address of that cute babe in the icetray, 
etc.)  
	Time: The character's perception of time randomly speeds up and 
slows down.  For him, it feels like watching the world in slo-mo or 
Benny-Hill-speed with only occassional periods of normality.	
	Matter/Life: The character sweats orange juice, butterscotch 
pudding, rubber cement, or some similar substance you wouldn't want to 
sweat.     
	Entropy: Everything the character writes down or stores 
electronically fades over a few hours until only blank paper or disc 
space is left behind.  This is particularly devastating to OoH or VA.
	
	Just a few to get ya started.
	Hope ya like 'em.
	
	Dan.


