X-Topic-No: 12
Date: Mon, 7 Nov 1994 17:09:33 -0600
From: ckobar@dttus.com
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Subject: Paradox Flaws:  A Very Different Idea
Message-ID: <ebea7030@relay.dttus.com>

     I have been thinking of a whole new way of using Paradox Flaws that 
     accomplishes (I do believe) all of the following:
     
     1) Gives the player near-complete control over how the Flaw manifests;
     
     2) Reinforces the "offending" mage's Tradition and paradigm;
     
     3) Adds a whole new depth to a mage's existence;
     
     4) Gives a true World of DARKNESS flavor to the game; and
     
     5) Emphasizes STORY over RULES
     
     
     Okay, here's my idea:
     
     When a mage has accumulated Paradox (whether a moment earlier or 
     months ago) he or she is well aware of it.  They realize that within 
     their pattern, their very soul/Avatar perhaps, there is a fundamental 
     "problem".  This "problem"/Paradox will only grow if denied.  In order 
     to address the "problem", mages have discovered that they can avoid 
     the worst "problems" by expelling the built up Paradox before it is 
     too late (and uncontrollable).
     
     Now, mage's don't know exactly what is going on when they "release" 
     some of the pent-up Paradox within themselves, but they are able to 
     direct some of this awful energy.  The thing is, each Tradition has 
     found its own ways to release this Paradox.  In order to accomplish 
     the task then, every Tradition must actively "give" the Paradox an 
     outlet, so to speak.  These various "outlets" are based entirely upon 
     a Tradition's primary sphere of understanding.  Basically, the mages 
     must "find a channel" through which the Paradox may disipate.  
     Usually, a channel results from an action of the mage.  This creates a 
     kind of "resonance" thing, allowing Flaws to add some real depth.  
     Some examples are as follows:
     
          Euthanatos (Entropy) -- These mages are able to release Paradox 
          through destruction, decay and disarray.  A mage could shatter 
          his watch in order to release a point or two of Pardox, or 
          actually kill someone, releasing a good bit more.  By setting off 
          a bomb beneath the world trade center, a GREAT deal of Paradox 
          can be safely expunged from the mage...(Begins to create the cold 
          killer and destructive bastard image)
          
          Virtual Adepts (Correspondence) -- Paradox can be channeled from 
          the mage via computer networks (E-mail, Internet, etc.).  The 
          flaws usually take the forms of viruses and such, but sometimes 
          they are actually important files or messages sent to the "wrong" 
          person...(Begins to create the anarch hacker image)
          
          Verbena (Life) -- Because of their strong ties to all living 
          things, these mages must have their Flaws manifest in either 
          themselves or other living things (can you say familiar?).  
          Diseases, injuries, etc. are all typical.  The mage must actually 
          cause the Flaw by actively doing something to their target.  The 
          more Paradox to be tossed, the more radical the manifestation.
          (Begins to create the classical witch image that others fear)
          
          Order of Hermes (Forces) -- The hermetic mages find that he or 
          she must rid themselves of dangerous "energies" within by 
          literally "grounding" themselves to objects or beings.  The 
          discharge may be simple static that lasts for a short time or 
          blazing heat that causes spontaneous combustion in another.  Very 
          dangerous... (Begins to create the "blasting wizard" image)
          
     Naturally, these are just a few ideas.  As someone suggested, the 
     Technocracy would "discharge" Paradox via technical malfunctions and 
     so forth.  Orphans would have to "invent" their own type of channel, 
     which they would then always rely upon.
     
     Backlash, Paradox Realms and Paradox Spirits would similarly manifest 
     in ways that accentuated and concentrated on the mage's Tradition and 
     sphere of primary concern, not on whatever magicks caused the Paradox 
     in the first place.  This adds more to the character's paradigm than 
     completely changing results every time.  This way a character can come 
     to have a dread, as they kind of "know" what sort of things always 
     happen when Paradox comes a'knockin!
     
     Thoughts?
     
     Aurelius, Am I in Quiet, or What?
                                        

