The Polyhedron of Andreas Arenamontanus

"17 January:	This is a most curious item. It is a large crystal or 
piece of glass, about five centimetres across with many faces. It is 
quite clear, and sparkles in a way which make most diamonds seem 
dull in comparison. It is also rather heavy, almost 3 hectogram. 

Inside the polyhedron is a world of reflections and refractions. I 
can see myself and my surroundings reflected, distorted and 
permuted in a myriad ways. There is also something else in there. I 
have not yet seen it, but I feel there is something hidden behind 
those illusions."

"21 January:	Today I saw it. I don't know what it was, or if it 
was a pure hallucination. Suddenly, I saw something in a facet 
move, and it was not a reflection of myself. Instead, it was a 
reflection of something... different. I can't explain it in words, but 
whatever it was, it was definitely not human."

"1 February:	I have seen other things in the polyhedron. One 
time I saw a strange room, or perhaps a building. The walls were 
made of living colours, meeting in obtuse angles and baroque 
ornaments. The other time I saw several (or perhaps only one, but 
disjointed) things move. I am not sure if it danced, gesticulated or 
dissolved (maybe it did all three at the same time). What I am sure 
about, is that it saw me. It definitely saw me."

"3 February:	I have studied the polyhedron, using Coxeter's 
excellent "Regular Polyhedrons". It belongs to the symmetry group 
{7,5,2}:which cannot exist in three dimensional space. This 
confirms my speculations. It is not from here."

"4 February:	I have communicated with them. No language can 
contain it. There is only the lattice of symmetries between us. 
Sometimes light is only what remains. What rules the circle also 
rules illusions of hope. Strange I didn't think of it before..."

The Polyhedron of Andreas Arenamontanus is a strange artefact. 
Its name derives from an obscure Hermetic scholar during the 11th 
century, who described it in his work "De Naturae Mysteris". It is a 
polyhedron of heavy crystal, brilliantly clear and cool to touch. 
Inside reflections and refractions dance, breaking up white light 
into strangely discoloured spectra. Using it as meditation object can 
lead to startling insights (+3 dices to occult, enigmas and cosmology. 
If the user botches, double the number of 1:s.). Anyone with science 
4 or Correspondence 1 will notice that the polyhedron have a very 
unusual shape, which should not really exist. It has other unusual 
properties, like its fantastic hardness (much harder than diamond) 
or that it never will become warm.

If studied carefully, the user may notice that there are glimpses of 
other places among the reflections inside. The places reflected are 
completely unlike any imaginable place, filled with weird objects 
and eerie beings. Nothing has the faintest resemblance to anything 
known to man. According to Arenamontanus, the polyhedron is a 
window into the Deep Umbra, showing the denizens of realms so far 
off that humans never have reached them. 

The polyhedron not only allows the user to look out, it also allows 
the things out there to look in. Arenamontanus relates the story 
about a monk who was driven insane by seeing something inside 
the polyhedron look at him. Even trained mages find themselves 
disturbed with the things on the other side. They do not seem to 
have any familiar concepts at all: time, space, dimensions, matter or 
energy may be unknown concepts to them. 

The polyhedron do not allow any matter or energy to cross, only 
information. In some cases the things on the other side have tried 
to initiate communication using something akin to Mind. This has 
invariably driven sleepers insane, and even a trained mage will 
have to fight for his sanity against the terrible alieness. Still, this 
has not deterred many mages, who have tried to communicate. The 
exact results are unknown.

The polyhedron is not magickal in any way; it contains no extra 
quintessence, and do not absorb quintessence in any way like a 
normal artefact does. Arenamontanus speculates that the 
polyhedron actually is a normal, mundane thing from a realm 
somewhere in the Deep Umbra, where the laws of nature are so 
strange they allow such things to exist. On Earth, it would 
constantly attract paradox due to its existence, but curiously it does 
not appear to do so. 

According to Arenamontanus, the polyhedron may be a Marauder 
artefact, deliberately left on Earth to trap the unwary. On the other 
hand, it does not appear to do the spectacular type of marauder-
magick one is used to. Another theory is that it is a Nephendi 
artefact, a window to the hidden masters of the Nephendi. But if 
that is true, how come the things outside are not more actively 
malign? 
