From nv91-asa@spree.nada.kth.se Thu Sep  1 12:08:05 1994
Date: Thu, 1 Sep 1994 11:41:32 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@spree.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Prime Rotes
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9409011132.B7794-0100000@spree.nada.kth.se>

Prime Rotes

Resist Resonance (Prime 1 Mind 1)

Sometimes mages have to use nodes or realms with strong or
unpleasant resonance. Some mages have developed a mean to
counter this insidious effect, by shielding themselves
against the resonant quintessence of the node. This
however makes them unable to use or infuse themselves with
the quintessence, but may be worth it for specially nasty
nodes. 

[ Note that Mind alone cannot prevent Resonance, since its
is reality itself that is changed. ]


Reveal The Enlightened (Prime 1 Spirit 1)

This rote was used by some of the more radical fractions
of the Celestial Chorus during the war against Order of
Hermes. They had trouble with mages hiding themselves
among sleepers and setting up clever wards against mental
scans. But they weren't able to hide their souls and
magick. By watching people through the light of a pure
fire, the choristers could see the strength of their
Avatars and the Quintessence in them. 


Find Paradox (Prime 1 Entropy 1)

Paradox Energies are subtle and capricious, but often
telltale indicators of magickal activity. Even small acts
of vulgar magick leave traces, which can be found by
clever mages. Order of Hermes whisper the seven secret
names of Discordia over their seal while the Virtual
Adepts link up with a network and check for disturbances
in the information flow to find Paradox. 


The Middle Pillar Ritual (Prime 2) <Order of Hermes>

This rote will strengthen the body, mind and soul of the
mage. The mage stands and visualises himself as the middle
pillar of the Sephirothic Tree. Below him is the material
world, and above his head Keter, the source of prime. He
feels the energy flowing through him, into the world and
from the world back to the source. The mage will feel
filled with power, in perfect balance of mind and body. 

[ The mage will pump quintessence into his own pattern for
a while. This will temporary strengthen the mages own
pattern and hopefully weaken intruding patterns. Each
success will remove one success of magick (Both helpful
and harmful), like a countermagick roll. The target number
for the rote is the highest sphere involved in the effect
+ 3, or 5, whichever is highest. It will not heal any
damage already done nor stop any flaws in the mages own
pattern. Prolonged use of this rote have been shown to
cause egocentricity, as the mage unconsciously begin to
believe he is the centre of the universe. ]


Occam's Razor (Entropy 2, Prime 2) <by Psychomachia>

Static magic functions through the creation of
coincidences - things that are unlikely, but possible. Fo
example, it is extremely unlikely that a coin flipped 100
times will land tails up each time. Possible, but
extremely unlikely. 

Occam's Razor states that explanations that are extremely
unlikely should be rejected in favor of more logical ones.
The rote that shares its name works by lowering the
entropy in a system, reducing the random chance that is
necessary for coincidences to succeed. This makes
performing static magic much more difficult - the
coincidences simply don't happen. 

[Anyone subject to this spell must make an Arete roll
(diff 7) each time she performs static magic, the number
of successes dependent on the outlandishness of the
coincidence desired. Failure means the spell dissipates
unaccomplished. A botch means that the spell manifests in
the most vulgar manner possible.]


Restore Pattern (Prime 2 Life 1/Matter 1/Forces 1)

Many patterns which are disturbed and damaged by magick
can be strengthened again if the quintessence lost is
replaced before they settle into a new pattern. This rote
has many uses. One use is as countermagick against magick
seeking to destroy a pattern, by healing the damage and
strengthening it before the changes even become real (it
wont work on any pattern that has already been changed,
since it now is a new, stable, pattern). 


Break the Flow (Prime 2)

The mage can disturb the flow of quintessence which
sustains a magickal effect. This is done by disturbing it
so it won't discharge into its target, but into something
else or just into reality in general.  This will disrupt
the magick for a short while (some types of magick may
even be dispelled by this). This of course only works on
magick which is fuelled by a flow of quintessence or is
upheld by a concentrating mage. It will temporarily break
down a barrier, make an eternal flame go out or turn a
temporarily boosted Life- mage normal. Hermetic mages
usually perform this by "cutting off" the power with their
seal, while intoning the name of a powerful god or force.

[ Each success removes one success from the affected
magickal effect. If it is of the type which demands
constant influx of quintessence to function and remain in
existence, like a flame or ward, it may be completely
dispelled if all successes are removed.  Matter and Life
magick will return to normal function as power returns.]


Aura of Power (Prime 2)

The mage channels quintessence into himself and his
surroundings.  He cannot control where it goes or how it
manifests, and it will spread. The result will be that the
mage will be quite noticeable, and appear more "real" than
the background. It gives a definite impression of power.
The negative side is that the quintessence attracts lots
of "little nasties" and can suddenly ground into patterns,
turning them more real too. Cult of Ecstasy perform this
rote by watching light reflecting in the surface of a
drink and then make a silent toast to themselves. 

[ Each success will give on extra dice on social rolls. ]


Paradox Fixation of Emma von Kellstahl (Prime 2, Matter 2)

A rote invented by the creative and overcomfident mage
Emma von Kellstahl of the Ordo Rosae Crucis. Her idea was
to create a stable pattern of matter, and then channel
Paradox instead of Prime into it, essentially locking it
up in a safe form. However, Paradox turned out to be far
more insidious than expected, and managed to pervert the
material patterns regardless of type. Emma was almost
killed several times until she gave up. The rote gives
Paradox energies a physical form to inhabit, which they
usually quickly warp to their own ends and somehow always
manages to turn against the mage. In fact, the rote is one
of the simplest ways to get nasty paradox beings to
manifest. A created crystal ball will shatter into shards
forming a hunting spirit, a piece of iron will animate
into a pursuing snake and a block of cement may suddenly
tip over the mage. 

[ The rote doesn't really channel Paradox into the
pattern, it just creates a pattern in the normal way. But
the rote also leads to a minor, imperceptible Paradox
Backlash into the material form, giving the powers of
Paradox control over it. ]


See the Briatic Plane (Prime 2 Spirit 2)

Mages from the Order of Hermes have always wanted to
understand how reality works, and developed this rote to
gain further understanding. In essence, it allows them to
see the "Prime Umbra", the aspect of reality which
influences quintessence.  According to some theories, it
is here the great pool of raw quintessence exists. In the
Prime Umbra, the forces which shape quintessence are
visible. This ranges from the changes around nodes and ley
lines to the texture or reality, resonance and paradox
warps. Some experimenters have reported that there seems
to exist beings there not based on much else than pure
quintessence without earthly patterns. Perhaps this is the
realm paradox spirits come from? Some adventurous mages
have even physically entered the Prime Umbra, with varied
results. Several times they have been attacked by powerful
paradox spirits, lending credit to the theory. 


Eternal Flame (Forces 2 Prime 3)

This rote is commonly used on the fire burning on the
altars of the Chorus. By infusing it with the purity of
the One under a long time, the fire becomes fuelled by the
quintessence of the world, not its material fuel. It will
burn without consuming, and by using Prime 4 it can be
made to only purify, not burn, flesh. This is the origin
of the Eucharist of Fire, wherein the Choristers drink
flames of purity. 


Pattern Quintessence (Prime 3, Mind 3/Matter 2/Forces 3)

A rote with many uses. By leading the quintessence of a
node through patterns, a mage can pattern it, making it
more amenable to turn into patterns of the same type.
These patterns may be physical, mental or spiritual. The
result may influence the type of Tass the node produces,
resonance and other phenomena linked to the quintessence;
a node charged with the power of plants will have a very
positive effect on plants nearby while subtly discouraging
phenomena hurting or damaging the plants.  

[ The necessary spheres depend on the type of pattern; the
mage must be able to form a "template" pattern. Matter 2
is required for matter, Forces 3 or 5 for Forces, Mind 2
or 3 for Mind (emotional or intellectual patterns),
Entropy 3 or 4 for Entropy and Spirit 4 for Spirit. ]


Crystallise Prime (Prime 3 Entropy 3)

This rote was invented by the Mechanical mages of the
Middle Ages, who later became the Sons of Ether and
Technocracy. By removing all disorder from the
Quintessence making up something , they could make it
behave completely according to theory. An affected object
will be without any flaws, hardly erode or decay if
possible and always behave as it should. This is the
source of the super strong alloys Iteration X uses or the
room temperature superconductors of the Sons of Ether. A
more chilling use is the Progenitor experiments which
remove all disorder from the flow of quintessence through
living beings, in essence turning them into perfect
individuals. 

[ The rote won't change any existing patterns, just their
underlying basis. If it is used on an already imperfect
object or something too random it just wont work. But if
the target is close to perfection, it will remain so and
may even slowly become more perfect as long as the prime
field retains its order. ]


Container of Power (Prime 3 Matter 3)

This rote is commonly used by owners of Nodes around the
world to store excess quintessence not in the form of
Tass. The mage spiritually reshapes a material object to
contain Quintessence, giving it the power to store it for
a period of time. A well made container can store it
indefinitely, while less perfect containers leak their
contents. Various traditions perform this in different
ways.  Choristers lightly touch the container while
drawing the holy symbol above it with fire. Dreamspeakers
prepare medicine bags and drum the power into them.
Euthanatos simply put bones into the node, letting their
emptiness draw quintessence into them.  Virtual Adepts
connect batteries to their computers and networks and fill
them with power. 

[ To charge a container, the mage uses Prime 3. To drain a
container of free Quintessence, the handling mage uses
Prime 1. The number of successes in creating the container
will show how long it can retain Quintessence.]


Prime Virus (Prime 3 Life 2 Spirit 2)

This Virtual Adept rote is greatly feared by technocratic
system operators, and rightfully so. The Adepts have
invented a method to create computer viruses which drain
quintessence of nodes and use it to create stronger copies
of themselves. Originally intended to use in the Web, they
have proven to be a very efficient weapon against nodes
and Horizon realms (the Adepts destroyed a Technocracy
Outpost in the Web by inserting the virus in its
quintessence supply. When it vanished, the realm
collapsed). Not only that, but the Adepts have invented a
version which works outside the web too, infiltrating and
draining normal nodes too. Fortunately (for the
Technocracy) their enemies have reverse-engineered an
anti-virus, which kills the first type. However, the war
of Prime Viruses is hardly over, and many technomancers
are quite worried. Some adepts are experimenting with
advanced viruses which channel excess quintessence to
their own accounts, giving them the ability to drain nodes
from afar. The Internet worm might have been an early
experiment. 

[ Each success in creating the virus will give it the
ability to drain the node one level (the viruses quickly
reach a steady-state level when they start to feed on each
other). A level 4 virus would be able to totally drain
nodes with ratings up to four, and turn level 5 nodes into
level 1 nodes until they are removed. Anti-viruses
decreases the level of viruses. Most viruses will remain
in the node they are activated in, but some designs follow
ley-lines and prime conduits to adjoining nodes. ]


Heal the Primal Wounds (Prime 4 Entropy 1)

The Celestial Chorus sees it as their duty to not only
serve mankind, but also the rest of reality. After
confrontations with Nephandi, Marauders and other enemy
mages the Chorus often have to try to restore some
semblance of normality to the areas which have been warped
and destroyed. By sprinkling purifying water and
consecrating with fire, they seek to unravel the tangles
of paradox, destruction and corruption left behind. They
might not be able to restore things as they were, but they
can dissolve the worst warpings of reality. 


Cartesian Rending (Prime 4 Mind 3)

This rote is named after Renee Descartes, who claimed the
soul could not interact with the material body except
through a tiny link in the Pineal gland. A logical
conclusion to this is of course that the link between the
soul (and hence the rational intellect) and the body can
be severed by suitable magick. This was also demonstrated
by the Verbena who used this rote to be able to safely
subdue enemies without killing them. They simply took a
drop of blood (preferably from the victim) and cut it in
half with their Athame, symbolising the severing of the
Soul from the Body.  The result is that the soul and mind
of the victim will be unable to influence or sense what
happens to the body. In effect it is locked up in itself
while the body goes on living and retains some rudimentary
intelligence, not unlike a zombie (this might be the real
method to create living zombies used by the Voodoo mages).
To restore the link, the mages have to carefully repeat
the rote in reverse. 

It goes without saying that the effect of the severing on
the victims is profound and very unpleasant. In the state
of total sensory deprivation they suffer they often
develop complex hallucinations and may suffer psychosis,
and become incurably insane after a few days. Kind Verbena
mages use Mind to put them to sleep for the duration of
the severing or place them in nice dream-realms. Mages are
however not completely powerless in this state, since they
may reach out using their still intact powers of magick.
They may not be able to use anything requiring the body
(like seeing or speaking), but many Spheres give them
excellent ways to interact with reality. 

[ The rote works by removing the Quintessence of the
patterns that link the Mind and Body of the victim. It
does not do any physical damage. Normally the soul of the
victim will be desperately truing to reach back to the
body, and this often succeeds if the rote is not sustained
or very successful. For some ideas about the effects of
sensory deprivation, see the similar Mind rote "Opening
the Abyss"]


Into the Twilight Zone (Prime 4 Entropy 2 Spirit 2)

This rote is popular among the Hollow Ones and Discordians,
who use it on unsuspecting sleepers. It weakens the link 
between a person and consensus reality. The result is that 
the victim is no longer protected by the forces of normality,
and become vulnerable to all the supernatural forces which
normal people never have the bad luck of running into. He
will start to run into the weirdness going on behind the
scenes, meet people and beings which should not be and
generally discover that the world is a much darker and
stranger place than he ever thought. 


Flaming Spirit Barrier (Prime 4 Spirit 1)

This ward is universally feared among the denizens of the
Umbra.  The Choristers cleanse and purify and area, and
then light a fire along the ward. This purifying fire will
burn and dissolve spiritual flesh even more readily as
mortal flesh. A spirit can pass through it, but will
suffer agonising burns and may even be permanently
dissolved if the ward is strong enough. Few spirits dare
to even approach the barrier. This is often used around
the Cathedrals of the Chorus. 


Anti-Reality (Prime 4) <Marauders>

This Marauder rote is essentially the exact opposite of
anti-magick (see BoS for details). The marauder dissolves
the supporting threads of the local Tapestry, allowing
reality the flow more freely and adding excess
quintessence to it. This creates a local region of dynamic
reality, where the normal laws are temporarily suspended.
A kind of anti- paradox zone, where vulgar magick may
become coincidental.  However, the rote itself is *very*
vulgar. It will attract Paradox Spirits as honey attracts
bees. But if the spirits enter the area, they become
influenced by the local paradigm and may begin to behave
in unexpected ways. In fact, they might start defending
the *local* rules instead for a short time, in opposition
to their unchanged brethren. Very confusing. 

Another side-effect is that the dynamic reality and free
quintessence makes random events occur. This ranges from
weak effects like having a glass coincidentally break or
insects behaving strangely when the rote haven't turned
reality very dynamic, over more dramatic effects like
potential fire coming real or spirits manifesting to truly
bizarre and dangerous events like objects changing shape,
breaches of the Gauntlet and reality behaving like a
surrealist painting. 

[Each success will make vulgar effects of less or equal
levels coincidental. For example, with 3 successes all
magick up to level 3 in any sphere is coincidental, while
Life 4 would still be vulgar. It will also allow random
effects up to this level, but they are completely
uncontrollable.]


Open the Void (Prime 4 Spirit 4) <Nephandi>

A feared Nephandi rote. It literally destroys reality,
opening a yawning Void in its place. It is commonly
performed by sacrificing victims around the affected area
(or at least completely, needlessly destroying things to
create the required waste), often in the form of a
destructive symbol. Around the Void reality flows and
changes in unpleasant ways, sometimes spontaneously
rupturing further.  There are even reports that frightful
beings have appeared from the Void, most commonly Pure
Forms, but sometimes worse things.  Rumours tell that the
Avatars of people vanished into the void become food for
the Nephandi Lords. [ The mage must break through the
gauntlet (like Breach the Gauntlet) to create a true,
somewhat stable Void. Otherwise it will just become a
major Paradox warp instead. Anything inside the Void will
dissolve into nothingness at a frightening rate (twice the
number of successes per turn). To heal an expanding Void,
the spirit rote "Sustain Existence" has to be used.]


The Blazing Light (Prime 5 Forces 3)

This rote was invented by the Celestial Chorus to protect
itself from hostile Pattern-magick from Order of Hermes.
The mage simply holds his fire aloft and infuses it with
divinity from his holy symbol. It will shine with an
intense white glow, blinding anybody looking straight at
it. Everything seems to be pale and insubstantial in
comparison. Much magick become weak and powerless in its
harsh glow and vampires, evil mages and other denizens of
the dark shun away. 

[ The rote works by channelling almost all free
quintessence into the light. This drains pattern magick
and makes all attempts to manipulate Prime (except to
strengthen the fire) much harder. Each success increases
difficulties for magick with one and removes one success
from all Pattern or Prime magick. Beings who contain
quintessence will feel it slowly drain from them, making
them very uncomfortable (each success will drain one point
of Quintessence/Blood each turn). ]


Partial Reconciliation (Prime 5 Correspondence 5 Time 5
Entropy 5 Spirit 5)

This utterly powerful ritual is more a legend than a fact.
According to the stories, some of the most powerful
Choristers and Hermetics attempted this ceremony 1000 AD,
to start the Reconciliation they expected would happen by
the Millennium. Obviously they failed, and vanished
themselves. The purpose of the ritual is to meld together
all quintessence, all patterns, all time and space as one,
purifying it from all imperfections and returning it to
the primal state before creation. Although the Partial
Reconciliation may not work on all of the universe (except
maybe when performed by the whole of mankind together), it
can certainly affect a small part. It is not an offensive
rote, but the supreme purification. In essence it returns
a part of creation back to the One before its time. The
horrendous paradox backlashes which have struck
participants are cited as signs of the extreme hubris of
this use. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




