Date: Tue, 2 Nov 93 23:20:06 -0800
From: David Alexander McMasters <dubrov@halcyon.com>
Subject: Punk and the WoD

Here's something I thought I'd share with all of you out there.  I wrote 
it a while back after discussions with those of you on the list, 
particularly with Rust.  After the discussion of skinheads and 
steroetypes it seems particularly apropos.  Please let me know what you 
think; I welcome flames as well as positive comments so let 'em fly.

Without further ado, my diatribe (thanks Rust :)!)
Archangelo di Novara.


(Usual disclaimers and notice of trademarks for World of Darkness, 
Gothic-Punk, White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, Camarilla, clan names etc.)

White Wolf Games refers to their setting as Gothic-Punk which got me to 
thinking about the Punk part of this.  The Gothic aspects seemed pretty 
straightforward:  Gothic atmosphere, an almost morbid interest with 
death, and so forth (this is a very heavy-handed simplification here but 
this is about punk, not goth).  In fact, there are elements of the 
gothic movement go together with vampires almost by default.  On the 
other hand, punk isn't necessarily immediately identified with vampires 
and their genre, thus the reason for this essay.
	The rulebook for VtM describes the Punk aspect as, "...the way people 
live...Simply emphasize all that you see wrong in our world, and you've 
got the Punk half of it." (p. 167, VtM, First Edition)  This essay is 
about punk, what it means as a form of expression and how to incorporate 
it into a Chronicle.  There's more to incorporating punk than just the 
appearances, particularly if you want the depth and atmosphere can bring 
to a game.
	It's the punk that really got me interested, yet it's not as well 
articulated as the gothic aspects.  The obvious examples are the Clan 
Brujah and the Anarchs.  Brujahs and their rants.  What could be more 
punk?  Anarchs rebelling against the stifling confines of the Camarilla 
and the Elders.  Very punk.
	Except that punk isn't just about rants.  Or punk music.  Or many other 
of the outward manifestations of the punk movement.  There's more to it 
than that.  For the World of Darkness in your Chronicle to be 
Gothic-Punk, it's necessary to have more than just the trappings and 
certain aspects of punk.  If you want you chronicle to be Gothic-Punk 
(emphasis on the punk), I think you have to express what might be termed 
"punk sensibilities" in a variety of aspects in you Chronicle.  I think, 
at the heart of it, punk is more than being rebellious, anti-social and 
dressing different, it's a whole new form of self-expression and of 
looking at the world.
	Every era has its movements that are in opposition to the status quo, 
some form of expression that goes against previous generations.  The 
punk movement was in many ways the antithesis of the counter-culture 
movement of the sixties.  For all its rebellion against mainstream 
society and culture, the motto of the punk has never been, "Turn on, tune 
in, drop out."  That's because members of the Punk movement, as much as 
they were disillusioned with society the way it was, chose to try and 
change things.  Dressing differently to rebel against being categorized 
and to draw attention to the fact that we discriminate based solely on 
things like appearance.  Likewise, the rant wasn't argument for 
argument's sake, but a means of individual expression and a sharing of 
information with others.  And of course, the music that served many 
purposes and was perhaps the most visible part of the punk movement, 
giving voice to the frustrations of punks everywhere and drawing them 
all together.
	Without trying to get more in-depth or display more of my ignorance 
than I have to, I'll leave the punk movement at that because those are 
the key parts that I think relate directly to Vampire: the Masquerade 
and the World of Darkness.


Anarchs
	"The whole assembly then rose, and they brough him before Pilate.  They 
began their accusation by saying, "We found this man inciting our people 
to revolt."
	-Luke 23: 1-2

"The Anarchs rebel against all the strictures of the Elders, their hated 
enemies, which are represented by the Prince's power.  These fledgelings 
believe that there is little to fear in the modern world, and that the 
old superstitions and Traditions should be thrown away.  Some believe 
that the Masquerade is the incarnation of the terror of Kindred grown 
too old and too fearful."
	-VtM, p. 172

"That government is best which governs least."
	-Thomas Paine

As above, so below.  The Camarilla seems to mirror, in many ways, the 
human society from which it was derived.  Like the Catholic Church and 
the Inquisition that gave birth to it, the Camarilla now uses the same 
methods to control or remove those who would undermine it.  Blood Hunts 
are called for open rebellion and the Anarchs are kept in line by the 
power of the Prince and the Elders.  ("A Hunt should be viewed as a 
violent form of excommunication.", VtM, p. 177)
	The question that begs to be asked is, why don't the Anarchs join or 
seek allies from the Sabbat?  Do they see the Sabbat as equally 
superstition-bound and regressive as the Camarilla?  Or is it the 
Anarchs' abhorrence of the Sabbat and the beliefs and practices of its 
members?
	Either way, the Anarchs are just that, Anarchs.  Like punks of a decade 
ago, they are rebelling against the structured society they find 
themselves a part of and seek to change it or to acquire a degree of 
personal freedom.  Unlike punk, however, there's no expression of views 
or an attempt to understand what's going on, why vampire society 
developed the way it did.  All there is, amongst the Anarchs is 
anarchy.  Anarchs reject beliefs in Gehenna, doubt the existence of 
Caine and readily dismiss legends that form the basis for the Elders' 
existence.  Unfortunately, punk isn't about rejecting ideas, it's about 
understanding them, knowing where they come from and even being able to 
use them against your enemies, if necessary.
	Blind rebellion and violence is commonly associated with the punk 
movement because punk is about anger and outrage against society.  
Sometimes this aggression takes extreme forms, but most often it's 
internalized and expressed with violence towards other punks in an 
almost ritual form as with slam-dancing.
	If we equate the Anarchs among the Kindred with punks of our society, 
much of the Anararchs' behavior can be better analyzed.  As anarchists, 
they reject both the Camarilla _and_ the Sabbat as entrenched 
institutions that serve to suppress the free will and expression of the 
individual.
	Their rejection of the superstitions and myths of the Elders should not 
be seen as an ipso facto denial of any truth behind these beliefs, but 
rather a denial of the repression brought about by an unquestioning 
belief in these stories.  An Anarch may very well wish to explore the 
truth behind these stories without being forbidden by an Elder for fear 
that an Antidiluvian might take offense or, far worse, Caine himself 
might take offense.  Of course, foolish Anarchs who do turn over too 
many stones tend to disappear...
	Lastly, as note in the Vampire: the Masquerade rulebook, Anarchs tend 
to be among the younger vampires and in opposition to the Elders.  When 
punk was at its height in the early Eighties, its adherents, 
particularly in England, were mostly the disaffected youth who were 
rebelling against the attitudes of the Sixties (just as the Sixties were 
in response to the culture of the Fifties...)  The Anarchs are young (at 
least by the standard of vampires).  Some would say that their attitudes 
are due to a lack of wisdom and understanding of how things are in the 
world.  Others would say that Anarchs are the ones with their eyes truly 
open and see the world without the misconceptions and blindness of 
centuries.


The Brujah

"A little rebellion now and then is a good thing; the tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants."
	-Benjamin Franklin

The basis of the Brujah, like the Anarchs, seems to be rebellion.  The 
Brujah, we are told, are allowed liberties not allowed of the other 
clans.  The reasons for this seem to be a case of adaptation, that being 
easier than attempting to remove the Brujah from the Camarilla.  More 
important, perhaps, is the possibility that the Brujah provide a 
necessary degree of conflict and prevent stagnation of the Camarilla.
	On the other hand, it may be that the fierce Brujah as the force behind 
the Anarchs have created a force that, while weak, still has political 
power and stands in opposition to the Elders.  The Elders have accepted 
the Brujah, not merely because to do otherwise was too much trouble, but 
because they feared an open rift in the society of the Kindred that 
might result in a severe loss of power for them and possibly risked 
exposing the Masquerade.
	The Brujah form the most rebellious clan in the Camarilla, expressing a 
variety of radical philosophies (as noted in the rulebook).  It is the 
expression of these ideas and attitudes that give rise to the infamous 
Brujah "rants."


The Nosferatu

	Like the Brujah, the Nosferatu are at the fringes of vampire society, 
but unlike the Brujah who force the Camarilla to accept them, the 
Nosferatu are content to remain outcasts, never considered part of the 
society that they actively influence from the shadows.
	Their appearance sets them apart not only from mortal society, but also 
from the society of vampires, making them the most alienated of the 
Kindred, yet giving them a unique view of many things.  Since they need 
not be concerned with social obligations and interaction with other 
Kindred, they are free to explore their own interests and learnings.  
Being part of the fringes, they also see much more clearly what is going 
on around them, having a remarkably detached point of view.


Using Punk in a Chronicle

Words and expressions
All these confessions
Of where we stand
How I see you
And you see me
Dedications of symmetry
Together we will be
Forever
	-Fugazi, "Promises"

	Punk is about a number of things including rebellion, the alienation of 
youth, fighting for social change and a great many other things.  The 
unique way many of these themes are expressed in punk lend themselves to 
a Chronicle and can be used to give it a vitality and immediateness that 
lend themselves to an enjoyable game and enhanced roleplaying experiences.

"You don't sing about love to people on the dole."
	-Johnny Rotten

	Alienation is a strong theme in punk and a can be the basis for a 
Chronicle all by itself.  Vampires, by their very nature, are apart from 
mortal society and the youngest may feel this the strongest, 
particularly those brutally torn from their breathing life and brought 
into the shadowy world of the Undead.
	How the Neonate copes with his or her new existence can be a 
fascinating roleplaying exploration.  Not to reiterate at length what 
may be found in the VtM rulebook, suffice it to say that the Neonate may 
react with apathy or even withdrawal from everything, with anger, with 
curiosity.  In all cases, though they may hope for (and possibly even 
achieve) a return to their mortal state, they must cope in the meantime 
with being an outsider, a predator, with an uncrossable void between 
them and the mortal world they interact with.

"Anytime but now
Anywhere but here
Anyone but me
I've got to think about my own life

The world is not our facility
We have a responsibility
To use all of our abilities
To keep this place alive"
	Fugazi, "Burning Too"

	Punk is also about social conscience.  More than many other movements, 
punk has been the voice for social discontent.  Concerns like prejudice 
and social inequity are often voiced.  The expression of this conscience 
speaks a common language rather than being an abstract discussion of 
principles and translates in extremely direct fashion to the members 
within the movement.  The concerts for Rock Against Racism in 1977 and 
1978 are an example of how this was expressed as part of a popular 
movement.
	In many ways, the society of vampires contains aspects of this 
conscience.  By contrasting the members of the Camarilla against the 
Sabbat, these values become more apparent.  The Path of Humanity is not 
about being a predator, but actually grappling with the moral issues 
involved in feeding off of mortals and the interdependent existence that 
springs from this.
	A Storyteller can heighten these feelings by making the players in his 
Chronicle aware of inequities in the Camarillan-dominated vampire 
society, the inequities in mortal society, the moral decadence inherent 
in the World of Darkness, or whatever themes have already been 
incorporated naturally into the Chronicle as it's created.  By making 
them aware of these issues, players may examine their responses with 
regard to their new existence.  Thus rather than incorporating punk by 
emphasizing all that is wrong with our world, merely make the players 
aware of the darkness without as well as the darkness within and allow 
them to roleplay their reactions and let them come to terms with their 
altered perceptions.
	The key is to avoid being heavy-handed.  A world that is truly dark, 
unrelentingly bleak, decaying, immoral (or at least amoral) and so forth 
will wear down the characters and, in many cases, sap their enthusiasm 
for the game.  There is more to darkness than just an absence of 
light.  In a chronicle, for darkness to have real impact, it must be 
contrasted with light.  This is what makes it important to get more than 
just the appearance of punk.  Get your characters feeling about the 
world around them, make them angry, make them want to change things or 
withdraw, to create something of beauty against an overwhelming sadness 
or fear, and the character become involved as active participants in the 
Chronicle, helping to shape it and act on the world as much as it acts 
on them.  As with all roleplaying, the creation of a Chronicle is a 
collaborative experience.


	Like punk, I think that Vampire the Masquerade is about violence. 
By way of qualification: violence can be found in many aspects of the 
game and pervades the life of the Kindred.  Even the drinking of blood 
from a willing mortal may be regarded as violent, involving submission 
to the desire of the vampire.  Indeed, the attractions of the vampire to 
those of the Victorian era were the expressions of behavior and 
attitudes that the Victorians avoiding expressing themselves.  
Particularly, killing (whether on the part of the vampire or the 
vampire's hunters) and sex (or the suggestion thereof as with the common 
gothic theme of the seduction of young women) were regarded with 
abbhorrence, expressing the bestial nature of man.  At the same time, 
there is an attraction that is still felt today, particularly in our 
attraction to the morbid, ranging from a strong interest in "true crime" 
literature to the display of accidents and mishaps on television, all of 
which are about violence against people, whether the source be other 
people or inanimate forces that cause bodily harm or psychological trauma.
	Players in a Chronicle will experience the effects of various kinds of 
violence, ranging from fights with other vampires, werewolves, hunters 
and other hazards of the World of Darkness.  There also exists the 
threat of violence whether it be from Elders keeping Neonates "in their 
place" and similar power struggles (which also occur in WtA among the 
Garou, though it takes different forms) or from such occurrences as 
hunters trying to track down vampires for the purpose of slaying them.
	What keeps a Chronicle from being more than a linked set of 
"hack-and-slash" encounters is situations in which outright physical 
violence is either undesirable or not possible.  The tension created by 
needing to keep a fight from developing will propel the Chronicle along 
and, when it finally does erupt, the resolution will be much more 
satisfying.  Similarly, a character fighting to keep from frenzying will 
find the delayed resolution more satisfying than just giving in.  In a 
case like this, the resolution need not be a frenzy, but may be a 
realization by the player as to the character's nature or motivations or 
some sort of moral victory that makes it all worthwhile.
	In this expression of restrained violence or internal violence is the 
expression of the essence of punk.  Sometimes anger towards society 
can't be contained and it is expressed in acts of vandalism or 
confrontations with authority (with concomitant negative repercussions, 
just as with the careless vampire who breaks the Masquerade), but is 
more often expressed through music or other artistic expression or as 
violence against other, consenting members of the punk community.  The 
Brujah rant is exactly this sort of internalized anger expressed in 
verbal form, allowing the Brujah to vent opinions, frustrations and 
thoughts rather than expressing them as physical violence.  A rant is 
till violent, but it is contained and non-physical.

	Rebellion is a characteristic most commonly associated with punk.  
Without belaboring the point, the idea of rebellion should be a constant 
theme running through a campaign.  Not just rebellion against authority, 
but against symbols and ideas, against those things that deny a vampire 
his or her free will or even life itself.  To be told that one is undead 
and condemned forever more to live apart from the living is something 
that the Kindred struggle with continuously and that conflict finds 
common ground with the punks' rebellion.

	Punk seems to stem from conflict, though it is a conflict with 
the world outside.  This seems to be the key difference that separates 
punk from goth and why the good folks at White Wolf Games have decided 
that the World of Darkness shall be Goth-Punk:  While punk is outward 
turning and angry, goth is inward turning and dark, the anger suppressed 
or transformed, often into suicidal depression and unresolved conflict.  
Balancing the two yields a world that is, by turns, contradictory and 
confusing while being very much alive and unique.



