From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Tue Jan 13 04:05:09 1996
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from mail6.netcom.com (root@mail6.netcom.com [192.100.81.142])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id EAA19536 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Sat, 13 Jan 1996 04:05:07 +0100
Received: by mail6.netcom.com (8.6.12/Netcom)
	id NAA10772; Thu, 11 Jan 1996 13:08:03 -0800
Received: from atc.boeing.com by mail6 (8.6.12/Netcom)
	id NAA10662; Thu, 11 Jan 1996 13:07:41 -0800
Received: by atc.boeing.com (5.65/splinter.boeing.com)
	id AA04800; Thu, 11 Jan 1996 13:11:46 -0800
Received: from runt.ca.boeing.com by splinter.boeing.com with ESMTP
	(1.37.109.16/16.2) id AA057724527; Thu, 11 Jan 1996 13:08:47 -0800
Received: by runt.ca.boeing.com (940816.SGI.8.6.9/931108.SGI.ANONFTP)
	 id NAA01220; Thu, 11 Jan 1996 13:04:27 -0800
From: "Corwyn J. Alambar" <cja8174@runt.ca.boeing.com>
Message-Id: <9601111304.ZM1218@runt.ca.boeing.com>
Date: Thu, 11 Jan 1996 13:04:23 -0800
X-Mailer: Z-Mail (3.2.0 26oct94 MediaMail)
To: mage-l@oracle.wizards.com, vampire-l@oracle.wizards.com
Subject: The Digital Raven - More in Northern California by Night
Cc: gm-l@netcom.com, wod-l@netcom.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Sender: owner-wod-l@netcom.com
Precedence: list
Reply-To: wod-l@netcom.com

Author's note:  Possibly the most interesting thing I've written up so
far, the Digital Raven is designed to keep any power level character
guessing.  I hope to not wallow in stereotypes in this one, since it
adds a major spark to the Bay Area, and gives a way to tie all the
various societies together.  This is the most likely piece of the
Northern California by Night to fall flat on its face, so please give
me hints, ideas, etc.  Thanks.

The Digital Raven

A Gathering Spot in Northern California by Night

by Corey Alambar

In a city known for its raucous behavior and outrageous parties, there
is one place that stands out amongst the rest.  An exclusive gathering
spot for the elite of the elite, the center of activity for those "in
the know".  The Digital Raven, a series of four nightclubs, is just
such a place.

Description

The Digital Raven is actually a series of four clubs in the Bay Area,
one in San Francisco, one in Berkeley, one in Saratoga, to the
southwest of San Jose, and one in Santa Cruz.  Each of the four clubs
is very different by structure than the others, though they all share a
few things in common.  They all have a large bar and dance floor area,
plus a stage that serves as a second dance floor or as a platform for
the live performers that sometimes come through and play gigs at the
Raven.  There is a small restaurant-ette area, with tables for sitting,
eating snacks and chatting away from the dance floor, and they all have
Cafe-net terminals, with full connections to the Internet.

Berkeley

The original 'Raven was opened in Berkeley, and it still holds much of
its old character.  Once a shipping warehouse, it now has between two
and four levels of dance floors, with lights set up and the acoustics
surprisingly clear, almost perfect despite the cavernous building.
 Iron staircases wind from level to level, and often streamers or
colored lights hang from the railings of the upper levels, which are
offset from the lower ones by several feet, giving an irregular, almost
fractured feel to the floorspace.  Lighting is, as in almost all cluibs
of this nature, dim, with occasional flashes from strobes and blinking
colored lights.

San Francisco

The 'Raven San Francisco was the second to open, and is considered to
have the most "class" of all the clubs that share the Digital Raven
name.  Built from a converted plantation house that survived The Quake,
the floors have been reinforced, in some cases knocked out, and the
party goes three floors up and two floors down.  The central
hallway/foyer has been converted into a room with a very
gothic-cathedral feel, with leering gargoyles and fountains trickling
along the walls.  The dark mood remains throughout the whole place,
with most of the woodwork and panelling done in a marbled black paint
scheme.

Santa Cruz

The third 'Raven to open, this one is most like a 1960's revival
center.  Silk and nylon fabric of many colors is draped from point to
point, the lighting is subdued, but more active, and the air hangs
heavy with incense.  Along the entrance are several posters of the
heroes of the Psychedelic movement, from 1960 to the present.  The
psychedelic, swirling colors are often overlayed with flourescent,
fractal or linear patterns, giving the entire club an effect much like
one would expect a cyberpunk universe to look under LSD.  Despite its
hippie looks, however, the music and the clientelle are still often
young sophisticates, members of the emerging "jet set" of the post Baby
Boom generation.

Saratoga

Built in an odd location, the Saratoga 'Raven is also the only one for
which a specific building was constructed.  Concrete and neon, the
exterior looks like a casino built from a military bunker, and
surrounded by well-lit gardens with tables scattered about for
conversation outside.  Inside, the character takes a harsher turn, with
theconcrete marked up as though burned, the concrete walls lookin as
though they were blasted with mortars.  And overlayed over the neon
striping and the concrete rubble effect is lush, thick greenery, with
vines growing up the walls, and small trees growing outof the center of
the dance floors.  Hailed by some architectural reviews as "the
ultimate shrine to the decay and destruction of modern civilization,"
the Saratoga 'Raven leaves an impression on all those who visit it.

History

The 'Raven Berkeley started back in 1963, by a small group of dropouts
from the University of California at Berkeley, who wanted a place to
chat, and have fun, while not having to deal with the less intellectual
crowd.  All the wiring in the original building was home-made, and the
sound system constructed from salvaged parts.  But from the opening
night party, the 'Raven was a smashing success.

For the next few years, the 'Raven became a gathering spot for the
budding computer generation, a combination chat lounge and dance club,
always catering to the cutting edge.  It was this that first brought
 the Technocracy, the Virtual Adepts, and the Sons of Ether to this
place.

Soon, it became acknowledged as a place to do business in private,
without the nosy eyes of superiors watching over you.  Secrets were
bought and sold, information traded hands like a dollar bill, and the
area acquired a mystique of its own.

In 1968, the controlling interest in the 'Raven bought a nearly
condemned mansion in San Francisco, and set about converting it to
another club.  Sensing the growing ennui of the new clientelle, the
'Raven San Fran was built with the dark, somber mood in mind, years
before the Goth movement began.  This atmosphere, plus the large number
of people, quickly began to draw the attention of the Kindred of the
area, and prompted McLaren to name it an Elysium, lest the Masquerade
shatter under the feeding frenzy that might ensue.

Soon thereafter, in 1971, the 'Raven opened a new club in the small
college town of Santa Cruz.  Long a favorite of surfers, it had also
become a home to the counterculture of the 1960s that never "grew up",
and became the perfect place to rebuild an image of the Raven like it
was at the beginning, back in Berkeley.  It was a smashing success from
the very beginning, and the supernatural clientelle coming in from the
north quickly drew the attention of the Chantry of the Gold Coast.

In 1974, something happened that would change the way people viewed the
'Raven altogether, particularly the supernatural community.  A group of
three Brujah, high on cocaine from the blood of a biker they had just
consumed, stormed into the 'Raven in Berkeley, and began to assault to
customers.  In the ten seconds they were active, they killed five
people, and then fled out into the night.

The police threatened to close down the Raven, and only through some
quick manipulation were the powers behind the Raven able to keep it
open.  In the week that followed the attack, however, the brujah that
were involved were each found, individually staked to some place that
faced across the Bay, where they were forced to watch the daylight
sweep by, until, as the sun began to set, they were finally struck by
its rays and burst into a flaming, writhing agony.

No one took responsibility for their capture and punishment, though the
atmosphere at the 'Raven was much more subdued for about a year.  In
that time, two more vampires were found in similar situations, one in
San Francisco, the other in Santa Cruz.  A few recognized them as
troublemakers who had been hastling patrons at the 'Raven, and soon it
had become a dangerous place for Kindred to be.

This all stopped however, after a mysterious letter was sent to the
leaders of the Scarlet Mansion, the Chantry of the Gold Coast, McLaren,
Torrero, and de la Vega, expressing deep regret over the necessity of
the actions taken against the former patrons of the 'Raven.  It went on
to assure them that their presence was always welcome, provided that no
one jeopardized the Raven or its clientelle again.

There has been much speculation about this letter, and who wrote it,
but it had an instantly calming effect on the denizens of the area, who
began frequenting the club in greater and greater numbers.

1982 was the year that the 'Raven exploded into popularity.  Pop
culture was finally catching up to its ever-trendy and futuristic look
and feel, and now it was the place to go for anyone who was anyone.
 The dance floors were always packed, and lines often wound their way
out the door and down the street several blocks.

During this time, a massive remodelling project took place, giving the
three 'Ravens the look they have today.  Grand reopening night was one
of the busiest nights in the history of the Raven, with over 50,000
people cycling through the three clubs, some from as far away as
London, Paris, Tokyo, and Sydney.

1987 was to be another very important year in the history of the Raven,
when the 'Raven Saratoga was opened.  Their biggest, most spectactular
project yet, it was anticipated for the 9 months of construction, and
tickets for the opening night celebration sold out within fifteen
minutes of going on sale.

Recently, there have been rumors that the operators of the Raven are
looking at property in Palo Alto/Menlo Park (near Stanford), Fremont
(northeast of San Jose), and San Rafael (north of San Francisco) as new
sites for the fifth 'Raven, though there has been no comment either way
from the operators of the chain.

The Operators

No one knows who actually runs the 'Raven, which is still listed as
privately held by a small company, Digital Raven Productions.  It lists
Johnathan Fisk as the president, though no one can locate the elusive
Mr. Fisk anywhere but in the records of the Raven itself.  There aren't
even any pictures of him on file, though he has been subpoena'd three
times since the clubs opened.

The rumors as to the nature of Mr. Fisk and the people behind Digital
Raven Productions are wild, and seem fanciful to all but the most
openminded.  Everything from an Umbrood to an Antediluvian to an Oracle
of (fill in the sphere) to an Avatar of Gaia Herself have been
attributed to creating and running the Raven, though no one has ever
been able to prove or disprove any of these theories.

(Author's note:  There are so many different possibilities for the
leadership of the Raven that I will not list them here.  In fact, in
each manifestation of the 'Raven (i.e. each different Chronicle that
uses it), the leader(s) may very well be different entirely.  What
follows is the answer for my Chronicle, though this can (and should) be
very different for other Chronicles)

The Raven, in fact, is something that can only exist in the Bay Area,
because it is something fundamental to the region that has caused a
place like this to exist.  As a closely knit microcosm, the collective
"spirit" of the region has been able to acquire a rudimentary kind of
sentience, a kind of living community mind/being with a main goal of
preserving itself.  Acting through a thrall (an Oracle of Mind who was
studying this structure), this collective has been attempting to
strengthen itself by bringing together the most creative (i.e.
strongest) members of itself into a network which it can then
manipulate subtlely.  Though it is formed from (mostly) human minds,
this "being" is totally alien in thinking to anything else in the Gaian
Tellurian, and is first and foremost concerned with its own survival.
 It knows of the being that sleeps beneath/within the Maze of Dreams,
Andromalech, and works against its agents, though it is a war that
takes place beneath the movements of the supernaturals of the region,
manipulating supernatural culture as supernaturals manipulate mortal
culture.

The Clientelle

Most all of the clientelle at a given night will be merely mortal,
though most of them can be considered on the cutting edge of something,
be it a science, society, drug manufacturing, or philosophy.  The odd
melange of ideas here, mixed with an atmosphere that is often more
narcotic than the average joint of marijuana, causes often intense
bursts of creativity in some groups of patrons, who will take their
brilliant insights home and attempt to categorize them and explain them
to their friends and colleagues.

THe supernatural element, however, is stronge here than anywhere else.
 At least one Wraith has been known to frequent the club, looking just
like another dancer, though he never seems to leave.  Magi, Garou, and
Kindred meet here to discuss politics, alliances, business, and
threats, and several planning sessions take place in the smoky booths
near the bar.  The unspoken rule of the Raven is that there is a
Masquerade of incredible proportions taking place here, though you may
freely discuss anything with anyone.  It is the doing, not the saying,
that is the crime here, and none wish to chance the consequences.

The most severe crime that takes place on any given night is burglary,
normally in the form of pickpocketing, which is not very frowned upon
by the management.  Pickpockets who are too successful, however, often
find themselves caught by the bouncers, and expelled from the club
rather forcefully, often landing on the offending hand and breaking it.
 There is the occasional tougher crime, however, ranging from assault
to rape to the very incidental murder, though often these crimes are
solved before the police even arrive, and oddly they never seem to
reach the paper.

Supernaturals, unless told explicitly, will not necessarilly know of
the Raven as a gathering spot for all the different sides.  They may
think it is simply a cool club, or they may think of it as an
occasional meeting point for their clan, pack, or cabal.  But they will
know, subconsciously, from the moment they enter, that this place is
not to be violated.

Chronicle Ideas

The Raven is a logical starting point for any mixed group or crossover
game, as it is a safe place to discuss business with the most unlikely
of associates.  The diverse atmosphere makes it very good for gathering
information, meeting contacts, etc.

However, it is not a totally safe place.  The grounds outside are often
haunted by the more nefarious types, and there have been several
murders and assaults between the doors of the Raven and nearby homes
and parking lots.  Merely wanting to meet a contact here is no
guarantee that that contact will be alive when the characters arrive,
though clues will be abundant if looked for in the right places.

The pan-Elysium of the Raven also makes it a good place to confront
foes that are more powerful than the characters are, or a safe place
for villains to taunt characters.  No character would dare break the
sanctity of the Raven, no matter how much they may wish revenge
(willpower check, diff 9, 3+ successes is a good guideline).

Or, alternatively, siniter things have been happening to the characters
or their associates in the Raven.  Maybe the characters notice
something odd going on, and they begin to trace it back to the Raven.
 Or maybe they just develop an insatiable curiosity about Digital Raven
Productions and Mr. Fisk.  As they try to track down more information,
they will find that there are several powerful interests (including the
Four Princes) that wish the Raven to remain secure, and a mystery.

+++++

Okay, this is probably the most challenging piece I've done for the N
CA by night series.  Tell me what you think, please, and make any
suggestions that come to mind.

-Corey (nettiger@netcom.com, cja8174@runt.ca.boeing.com)

