From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Mon Dec  1 22:27:03 1995
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from mail6.netcom.com.netcom.com (root@mail6.netcom.com [192.100.81.142])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id WAA08407 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Fri, 1 Dec 1995 22:27:00 +0100
Received: by mail6.netcom.com.netcom.com (8.6.12/Netcom)
	id IAA24816; Thu, 30 Nov 1995 08:08:52 -0800
Received: from b612.anet.fr by mail6.netcom.com (8.6.12/Netcom)
	id IAA24667; Thu, 30 Nov 1995 08:08:35 -0800
Received: from ale.anet.fr (ale [194.51.25.32]) by b612.anet.fr (8.7.1/8.7.1) with SMTP id RAA03573 for <WOD-L@netcom.com>; Thu, 30 Nov 1995 17:15:08 +0100
Date: Thu, 30 Nov 1995 17:15:08 +0100
Message-Id: <199511301615.RAA03573@b612.anet.fr>
X-Sender: bachmann@cybera.anet.fr (Unverified)
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
To: WOD-L@netcom.com
From: bachmann@b612.anet.fr (Christophe Bachmann)
Subject: Res Hominem (Of souls)
X-Mailer: <PC Eudora Version 1.4>
Sender: owner-wod-l@netcom.com
Precedence: list
Reply-To: wod-l@netcom.com

Res Hominem

Sentience
What differentiates Sentient species from animals is something we will call 
Avatar. It is the kind of thing that cannot be defined in human terms, but 
it completes the trilogy of Psyche and Shadow.

Definitions
Let us try to give an operative definition of these three terms.
The important word here is operative, We will not care about what these 
parts are, or whether they are indeed real parts. This question is totally 
inconclusive and thus purely ludicrous. What imports here is if and how our 
definition correlates with observable phenomena, and permits to predict not 
yet known facts. 

The Psyche is the conscience, the sentient, rational part of man it is what 
we recognise ourselves to be.

The Shadow is a repressed, primal part, it is the part we do not acknowledge 
and reprove, the part of instincts and primal urges.

As for the Avatar, it is that what makes a society possible, that 
collective, undefined part that makes for language and transmission of 
knowledge. It makes also for the transmission of knowledge through the 
collectivity. 

All animals have a Psyche and a Shadow, all they lack is an Avatar. 
Individual animals can be individually very intelligent, but no animal never 
was able to create a society, for lack of the transmission booster that 
Avatar represents.

The Psyche is the repository of all the active mind. It is the Intellect, 
Willpower, and Knowledge. It is the part of abstraction, of ideals as well 
as of science, of reflection and emotion.
It is neither good nor evil, but in the Moorcockian dilemma it is the Law. 
The regulating force that never creates but ever orders.

The Shadow is the force of the passive mind, It is the Intuition, the 
Perception, the Talents. It is the part of concrete, of instincts and 
immediacy, of selfishness and recklessness.
It is again neither good nor evil, but would be on the side of Chaos, 
creation and destruction without rule nor order.

Interactions
Their interactions are all-important in a human's life, because their 
relative importance and disposition rules the "affetti" of the person.

For instant simplification let's look at four extreme cases, High and Low 
for Psyche and Shadow.

Low Psyche, Low Shadow : An apathetic wretch without either drive nor rule, 
just able to think in immediate personal terms, and without the backbone to 
make anything coherent. The typical bum.
(Not to say all bums are in this case, neither that all in this case are bums.)

Low Psyche, High Shadow : A driven person, without the will to make 
something of this drive, a cursed artist, or a serial killer, somewhat 
incommunicado, perceiving more than thinking and reacting instantly.

High Psyche, Low Shadow : The great schemer. A person with the capacity of 
reflecting in very abstract terms, but without the fire inside. If well 
tutored they can become great scientists, of the theoretical variety. Else 
orderly people without personality.

High Psyche, High Shadow : Driven, passionate people, capable of instant 
actions tempered by foresight, capable of unswerving dedication, capable of 
extremes of good and evil. In no case the ordinary person.

In fact the exact twist of personality depends on the relative strengths of 
Psyche and Shadow, and their disposition.

If Psyche dominates Shadow, the person will behave along lines of higher 
order, and think in terms of Altruism/Egoism. The more the Psyche dominates 
the shadow, the more they will think in abstract terms, the higher the 
absolute values, the more they will be active.

If Shadow dominates Psyche, the person will think in terms of 
Gratification/Punishment. The more the Shadow dominates the Psyche, the more 
the immediate, unforesighted, aspects will appear, the higher the absolute 
levels, the more actions the person will be able to take.

The Avatar
Now to the Avatar. It's function is to put in harmonious relations Psyche 
and Shadow, and to enable interpersonal communication. It is a part of the 
person that is not personal, but flows from person to person, immortal and 
intemporal. People may have it in different measures, the higher the avatar 
the more the person thinks of oneself as part of a whole, the lower, the 
more a person will think in egoistic, selfish terms. This will definitely be 
tempered by Psyche. The more Psyche one has, the more one will tend to 
rationalise and come to a medium position.

Death
On a person's death, the Avatar flows on and Psyche and Shadow remain to 
clash heads on. Each trying to destroy the other, until either the person 
dissolves into immediacy and looses any coherence, going straight into 
oblivion, or loosing more and more the sense of  concrete, until they 
transcend to the realm of pure Psyche, where- and whatever that is. In some 
cases, the dead's life-force, rather than facing immediate resolution, is 
booted into lower Umbra. There the components of mind being able to sustain 
themselves can split, forming two distinct entities, and you got a Wraith.

Magic
If a person's Avatar is high enough, it can even influence the other peoples 
Avatar, thus influencing reality. If it can be done without the Psyche of 
the other revolting, it is inside the limits of static reality, and thus is 
just magic, and doesn't glean Paradox. If it cannot be done so, it is 
Magick, and can glean Paradox, if anybody's Psyche (including the Mage's) 
revolts against this, ordering the Avatar to set things straight again.

Paradox
The Avatar cannot set things right, but can mess up the Mage's Avatar, thus 
making for Paradox backlashes. However, a Marauder wrapped up in the quiet 
has set barriers between his Avatar and other's and thus when other's Psyche 
revolt, they just mess up each one's Avatar who can't send the mess through 
the barriers, which makes for the Marauders external paradox effect.

However any Avatar thus bothered can react by tweaking things around, 
letting his Avatar being more in accordance with the world around, and 
making Psyches notice that one Avatar around is messing up reality. This 
explains why Paradox flaws are often noticeable, but don't create more 
Paradox build-up, because they are in effect just a sign telling any Psyche 
around a conscious reality change was effected.

Other Avatars
However, there are three other avatars around, Gaia, the Quickening, and the 
Dreaming, competing with the common Avatar.
Gaia
In the case of the Gaia avatar, three things may happen. A child may at 
conception inherit a part of both avatars, but the Gaia avatar, never waked 
goes dormant. The person is a classical human, who might birth a Garou.
Each smoothes down the other, and the child is fully human, but does not 
suffer the delirium, he is a kinfolk.
Or the Gaia avatar suppresses the Avatar. Theses people, the betes, are not 
any more connected to the normal Avatar, and thus may disregard sleepers 
when they use their Gifts and Rites, but are all interconnected.
When something out of reality is initiated by the Gaia avatar, the Psyche of 
viewers asks for Paradox, but the Avatar who falls nose to muzzle with the 
Gaia avatar remembers aeons of repression during the impergium, and plainly 
refuses, causing major dysfunctions in the affected person's mind. This is 
called the delirium. However in some betes the Gaia avatar and the Avatar 
come to terms, in this case, the Gaia avatar copes with the stress, but the 
Delirium does not kick in, letting all viewers in front of the situation, 
which is now accepted by the Avatar.
Another situation is that when two betes mate, their offspring has much less 
connection to the Avatar, which is necessary for human completeness, thus 
Metis are deformed in some ways and often temperamentally unstable. And, 
being unable to pass on the Avatar, all of their children are early 
miscarriages.
One other noteworthy fact is that the Gaia avatar has much higher imprint 
capacity onto the psyche, and can impress whole memories of past lives, as 
opposed to the Avatar's dreams.

Quickening
When a person is connected to the Quickening, she is most often a sportive 
type. And sometimes, on Death, when their normal Avatar withdraws, the 
Quickening tries to heal the body and take over, this only happens when the 
body is still fully functional, and is killed by a wound, or some other 
acute phenomenon. Then the Quickening manifests its first power, as it 
infuses the new immortal. Quickening is a little peculiar in that very few 
persons are connected to it, so each death of an immortal frees a whole lot 
of Avatar that can be absorbed by any nearby person connected on the 
Quickening, the remainder floats away, infusing some persons and remaining 
dormant until death.
Accessorily this makes for all these people who, on the very brink of Death 
hold on for an unexpectedly long time, the entire forces of Shadow, Psyche 
and the Quickening pitted together, but the mortal's strength is just barely 
insufficient, or some outer event saps these strengths and they die on the 
verge of Awakening.

The Dreaming
Then there is the Dreaming . This one creates a meta-reality perceptible 
only for those who have this avatar active. If so, they are in the 
meta-reality, their common Avatar maintaining a veil of normal reality and 
smoothing out the discrepancies. So for instance a Troll who ducks under a 
door, will seem a tall human not ducking. When the discrepancy cannot be 
ironed out, the Avatar will try and kick in Paradox, as usual, but the 
Dreaming copes with the stresses, and so the other people's Psyche having 
asked for everything to be set right receives the OK from the Troll's Avatar 
and agree all is set to rights, acknowledging the end result regardless of 
the impossible causes. That is the mists phenomenon.
However there are times when the Dreaming is weakened, in these times the 
person is disconnected from the Dreaming reality and is for all instances 
and purposes a common human until reactivated.

The Mark of Cain
Lastly, there is a very nasty modification that can be imposed upon an 
Avatar, on Death, the Avatar may recieve the mark of Caine, tying it up to 
the Shadow rather than the ordinary Psyche, making it unable to depart, and 
disconnecting it in most part from the Avatar. The persons suffering this 
are Vampires, and their Humanity is the measure of the connection Psyche 
maintains with the Avatar, enabling them to still partake of humanity. Due 
to Cain's mark, Vampires are impervious to Paradox, and do not generate 
Paradox for others.
The motive force of a Vampire is not any more the Psyche, but the Shadow, 
whose strength is derived from blood. In a Vampire, Humanity is a measure of 
how far the Psyche can maintain an artificial link to it's Avatar, 
Bestiality is the measure of the dominance of the Shadow over the Psyche. 
Never can a Vampire's Psyche dominate the Shadow, except in the mythical 
state of Golconda.

True Faith
In this Point of View, True Faith is quite the opposite of Magic, it is an 
Avatar not imposing it's views on others, but asking others to fudge reality 
for it's sake. That can bring very powerful results, reshaping reality and 
negating any and all magic, but is very fickle and rare, because most often 
no consensus can be reached in the Avatar. But when something happens it is 
the most static of static reality, and thus immune to all other effects, 
including Paradox. In effect there is no earthly force stronger than a 
Miracle.  

Fae vs Actor
All that has access to to Dreaming must be treated through the Fae realm, 
Everything else, even those who have the Dreaming dormant must be treated 
through Actor.

How many other questions can this neatly (or not so) solve ?

As always comments, criticisms and expansions most welcome...


With best regards,
Chris CII (Christophe Bachmann) <bachmann@cybera.anet.fr>

All I am,
a child with promises
All I have
are miles full of promises of home.


