Path: news.kth.se!sunic!pipex!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!jobone!lynx.unm.edu!argo.unm.edu!not-for-mail
From: rkelly@unm.edu (Robert Kelly)
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: The RISE of the TECHNOCRACY
Date: 1 Dec 1994 06:46:21 -0700
Organization: University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Lines: 320
Message-ID: <3bkk3d$2pdn@argo.unm.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: argo.unm.edu

My Version of the Technocracy: History and 
Additional Stuff.

--Note, this is the way I play White Wolf's WOD.

Previous to this time: AK Brothers, Dreamspeakers, 
and some neo-Verbena, neo-Euthanatos, and neo-Ahl-
I-Batin existed as awakened mages.  All of them 
have been highly influenced by the rise of the 
Technocracy.  You can take as much as you want or 
leave it all.  I'd appreciate an embellishment.  
All quotes come from the Encyclopedia Britannica.


1800 BC	Babylonian Astronomy: non-magical 
scientists learn how to predict the actions of the 
stars.  

5th c BC	Ionia at this time is developing the 
sources for money, later will produce the first 
"coin" of a valuable metal.

	Pythagoreans develop Greek astronomical 
theories to demonstrate "Order of the Cosmos is 
fundamentally mathematical."

	Invention/Discovery/Creation of "0" awakens 
the first Questing and Dynamic essences.  At this 
time, the most advanced magical spheres are Mind 1 
and Matter 1 by what is to become Iteration X.  
Currently,  there are no convention/tradition 
mages, just Awakened people who trade ideas and by 
doing so, perpetuate one form of thought or 
another.

	Combination of the "Predictions" and 
Numerology, "The universe holds a central fire 
which all heavenly bodies--including the Earth--
revolves around."  This concept plants ideas into 
neo-Celestial Chorus, which rise to power in the 
next five to seven centuries.  

4th c BC	Plato & Aristotle: "A constant motion 
requires a constant cause, as long as a body 
remains in motion, a force is action on that body.  
Nothing can exist in a Void, for in a void, 
resistance is zero and the relationship is 
undefined."  While these void words are not 
pondered upon directly by Awakened beings, they 
will become the founding of a convention in two 
thousand years.

Birth of the Rationalist Philosophers, with the 
motto "If we can rationalize it, then it exists."  
This statement lead to wider Awakenings.

3rd c BC	Rise of Archimedes.  "Give me a lever big 
enough and I can move the world."  The Rationalists 
split, nearly destroyed, by the machinations of 
Archimedes.  Celestial Chorus-types take major 
control of developing Greek Civilization and later 
the Romans.  Both Philip the Great and Alexander 
the Great were Awakened individuals.

	Archimedes becomes the first casualty in what 
escalates into Ascension War.  The race to Awaken 
sleepers begins.  The losing side of the split 
become the Pythagorean Numerologists and move to 
the isle of Sicily.  Later manipulate Carthage to 
fight Rome and lose soundly.  "Principia 
Mathematica" is written, later lost, and the 
Numerologists begins to lose cohesion.

Year 0 	Celestial Chorus, after discovering Prime 
2, go for all out control. first wide-spread use of 
a "meme" as a mental virus.  Verbena, Dreamspeakers, 
and Akashic Brothers are discovered 
by the way-ward Phythagorean Numerologists, who 
learn greatly from them.

2nd c AD	Greek texts lost to Arabic cultures, 
giving rise to the Ahl-I-Batin, who are resistant 
to the rise of Rome and the Celestial Chorus.

7th c AD	Ahl-I-Batin influences Judaism in subtle 
ways to give rise to Qabbalists, later pre-Order of 
Hermes.  Symbolic Occult and Alchemy is heavily 
influence by the Pythagoreans Numerologists.  by 
the combination of these two events, the first 
Order of Hermes mage (Hermes Trimestes.) awakens.

12 th c AD Rise of the University as guided by 
former Numerologists and neo-New World Order 
operatives--a little known sect of monks call the 
Order of Barakat secretly import a Ahl-I-Batin 
scroll into a university near Islamic Spain to 
create the some of the largest forerunners to the 
now Sons of Ether.

The Order of Barakat then manipulates the Knight 
Templar and spur the rise of the Inquisition, 
targeting Judaism (therefor Qaballah and Order of 
Hermes, somehow, it gets far out of control and the 
Celestial Chorus starts attacking all mages.  The 
Order of Barakat uses France to create 2 popes--
further limiting the power of the Celestial Chorus.  
This is the first coffin nail for the Celestial 
Chorus.  Several members of the Order of Barakat 
leave to merge with the Numerologists.

12/13th c AD 	The merging of Barakat and 
Numerologists create the  Hanseatic League , 
working throughout the old world to give the rise 
to scientific powers and research.  Marco Polo 
finds money for financing his trades with the Far 
East-- thus the neo-Syndicate spread (as does the 
Celestial Chorus). However, since the Celestial 
Chorus stuck out like a sore thumb, they received 
most of the brunt from other mages. Together with 
the neo-Sons of Ether, mages begin developing new 
mathematics and new theories in earnest to awaken 
more sleepers.

15th c AD	Celestial Chorus falls into another trap 
as the Sons of Ether offer--as a peace treaty--that 
the Bible be the first book printed on the new 
printing press. The press necessitates the need to 
learn written language, spurned on by universities 
and free thought.

The Order of Barakat is discovered and purged by 
the Celestial Chorus.  No longer hidden, these 
awakened being call themselves the Principal 
Mathematicians, dedicating their lives to solving 
the equation of the universe mathematically.

1492 AD	Spain "discovers" America--the New World--
which the Hanseatic League encourages the birth of 
the New World Order.  Combined with the printing 
press, and their activities as the Order of 
Barakat, and a wayward Order of Hermes tradition, 
the New World Order slowly rises to power within 
the conventions.  The NWO develops memetic warfare 
into a science--everything from a divorce of a king 
to the sonnets of a poet become warfare in their 
hands.  

1543 AD	The New World Order steps forward as the 
leader.  They invite the Hanseatic League, the pre-
Sons of Ether, and the Principal Mathematicians to 
work together. Under their hands, the Pogrom 
becomes officialized by the groups involved.  The 
Prunetic Tables and Copernicus' Revolution of 
Celestial Orbs place more nails into the coffin of 
the Celestial Chorus.  The Order of Hermes is  
spurned by the New World Order, but good relations 
are kept to prevent a similar war with them--but the 
NWO knew they were only buying time and set up 
contingencies.

Principle Mathematician Copernicus's best idea was 
to stop trying to change the world as it was right 
now--it was too hard and the Celestial Chorus held 
most of the cards.  To change the world's future 
was much easier.  His actions lead to the creation 
of the "Forecasters": then called the Prediction of 
Thought and Matter.  The most powerful of the 
conventions were chosen to become, Copernicus one 
of them.

circa this time: 
Between 1400 and 1600, the Gauntlet becomes a force 
to be reckoned with.  With the destruction of Ahl-
I-Batin and Celestial Chorus nodes, the Gauntlet is 
observed to spread.  Horizon realms, which were 
once widely used by other traditions, now become 
necessary for mages to work, study and experiment.  
The Order of Hermes abandons most of their mundane 
activity.  Paradox starts to become a serious 
problem for mages at this point in time.

1669 AD	The Hanseatic League disbands.  After the 
Principle Mathematicians and Sons of Ether discuss 
their "discontent," moderated by the New World 
Order, a splinter group rises to power, the Gnomes 
of Zurich, who exist to influence societies through 
money and colonization.  They create several large 
banks--especially in Holland, Denmark, and England--
to further their control.

17-19 c AD	Several Awakened persona return from 
the New World.  Formerly the New World Order, their 
journeys had changed them drastically--almost making 
them as useless to the rest of the conventions.  At 
first, they had a pipe for a focus, but the Sons of 
Ether created better vessels for which they could 
travel.  

Charles Babbage and his machine give rise to the 
Difference Engineers, who immediately apply for 
membership within what they called the Technocracy.  
The term stuck.

The Principal Mathematicians predict the Xth 
Iteration of their mathematical equation to unlock 
Ascension.  The appropriately change their name to 
Iteration-X.

Late 1800's	Two genius Sons of Ether engage in 
the War of the Currents.  Tesla's and Edison's 
hatred for each other becomes legendary.  To 
prevent further embarrassment, New World Order 
plots the downfall of the Sons of Ether.  

Iteration-X encounters a monk named Mendel, and the 
Gnomes of Zurich sponsor Charles Darwin to go on a 
trip around the world.  Combined with socialist 
theory of the New World Order mage Marx, the rise 
of the Social Darwinists are guided into the light--
soon they change their name to the Progenitors.  
They join, with the New World Order, in the bitter 
fight of evolution vs. creationism.

1900's	While Tesla and Jules Verne are on the 
moon in their Ether-Balloon, the Technocracy, egged 
on by a jealous and insane Edison, votes to destroy 
destroy the Ether.  Edison is shot in the head soon 
thereafter and a Progenitor/It-X golem is left in 
his place.  Verne is succumbed by paradox.  The New 
World Order, showing that it no longer needs the 
Sons of Ether, has an unawakened man, Albert 
Einstein, promote their views across the world.  

Randolph Hearst becomes the first Syndicate/Gnome
mage to known to the traditions in nearly one 
hundred years.  A Cult of Ecstasy mage, a tradition 
hardly unheard of or involved in the Ascension, 
supports Orson Welles in his portrayal of this evil 
Technocracy member.  The result leads to Hearst 
being sabotaged and killed in his eerie mansion.

The Sons of Ether fight back: knowing that the 
Technocracy depends on analysis of the here and now 
to predict/change the future, they create an anti-
meme: Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle--thus 
creating the largest obstacle to the Technocracy's 
Pogrom.

The New World Order manipulate the US Government to 
allow big business and organized crime to rise.  
The Gnomes of Zurich rename themselves after their 
largest acolytes: the Syndicate.  

The Progenitors create the Watson-Crick DNA stand 
with the Iteration-X paradigm.

The New World Order use the last great inventions 
of the Sons of Ether to promote their control of 
the masses: Movies, Television, and Radio, creating 
centralized areas from which they can program the 
minds of the masses.


My version of each convention
Reality, under the Technocracy, is scientifically 
driven and mathematically proven.  IT-X's sole 
purpose is to create/discover the mathematical 
solution which solves/dissolves the world.  When 
Ascension occurs, the Technocracy will no longer 
have to care about the physical world, therefore 
they do not care about using the world's resources.

The New World Order seeks to create a hegemony of 
semiotics, images that automatically produce other 
images, which in turn will signal a mass, unified 
Ascension where everyone is performing the exact 
same signal for Ascension at the same time.

Progenitors are seeking a mathematical solution to 
all the forms of life--genetic codes, fingerprint 
whorls, the numbers of hair on your head.  Only 
they and the New World Order are working at 
defining the past and the future.

The Syndicate seeks the influence of money, and is 
uniquely tied to the roots of the Technocracy by 
spreading the concept of Zero.  The more one 
realizes that he or she has nothing, then the more 
one realizes that they could have something more 
than Zero.  The way to get more easily is to have 
money, to make money, you have to have money, if 
you don't have any money, you need to borrow 
money... and so on.  Some Virtual Adepts tease that 
the Syndicate seeks to indebt everyone in the world 
and simultaneously remove it--causing so much 
emotional impact that the world ignites through 
Ascension.

The Void Engineers?  Remember the statement,  
"Nothing can exist in a Void, for in a void, 
resistance is zero and the relationship is 
undefined."  Well, they seek to exist in a Void.  
Of all the conventions, they are the weirdest and 
most bizarre.

What, I didn't mention the Forecasters?  Funny, 
that.

[PS, as I was spell checking this doc, the word 
creationism was flagged and the suggestion was 
cretinism.  Funny, that too, the Technocracy works 
in strange ways.]

Robert Kelly 
rkelly@unm.edu
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
			* To speak is to lie
			* To live is to collaborate
			* Everyone is a coward when faced with the Nova Ovens
				_Nova__Express_, William S. Burroughs
