
From server@wizards.com Mon Oct 25 11:32:00 1993
Received: from yang.cpac.washington.edu by mail.nada.kth.se (5.61-bind 1.4+ida/nada-mx-1.0)
	id AA26413; Mon, 25 Oct 93 11:31:54 +0100
Received: from mailgate.omnigroup.com by yang.cpac.washington.edu
	(5.65/internet->uucp gateway 2.4.2) id AA25247; Mon, 25 Oct 93 01:06:49 -0700
Received: from tapir.wizards.com by omnigroup.com (NX5.67d/NX3.0M)
	id AA03037; Fri, 22 Oct 93 08:55:59 -0700
Received: by wizards.com (NX5.67d/NX3.0M)
	id AA07346; Fri, 22 Oct 93 08:43:33 -0700
Date: Fri, 22 Oct 93 08:43:33 -0700
Message-Id: <9310220839.AA21672@efn.org>
Comment: Mailing list for "Mage: the Ascension"
Originator: mage-l@wizards.com
Errors-To: netsec@wizards.com
Reply-To: mage-l@wizards.com
Sender: mage-l@wizards.com
Version: 5.5 -- Copyright (c) 1991/92, Anastasios Kotsikonas
From: deirdre@efn.org (Deird'Re Brooks)
To: Multiple recipients of list <mage-l@wizards.com>
Subject: New Rotes - Please Comment
Status: RO

Geeze, slow night tonight.

Anywayz, here are some of the Rotes I've been promising, please feel free to comment or criticize.

-----
                       Rotes of Divination
 
     Analyze Composition
     (Matter 1)
          The subject knows the chemical composition of any item
     she chooses to analyze.  
 
     Analyze DNA
     (Life 1)
          Maps and analyzes the DNA of any living being the mage
     uses this effect upon.  Pinpoints harmful genes, whether
     recessive, dominant, single or paired.  
          
 
     Detect Invisible
     (Correspondence 1 or Forces 1 to detect warpings of space or
     effect on light, Mind 1 to detect Untethered or Spirit 1 to
     find Spirits)
          Locates distortions of space or manipulations of light
     to detect those hidden from view in area.   Mind 2 can also
     be used to locate people by their minds, and Life 1 can be
     used to scan for life force.
 
     Detect Poison
     (Matter 1, Life 1)
          Allows the Mage to analyze food or drink and determine
     if ingestion would be harmful.
 
     Detect Radiation
     (Forces 1)
          When this is used, the mage can determine what level
     and kind of radiation is present in the area.
 
     Detect Scrying
     (Correspondence 1)
          The Mage can detect the distortion of space that occurs
     when someone is using Correspondence to view an area.  With
     Correspondence 2, the mage can track the distortion to its
     source.
 
     Detect Undead
     (Matter 1, Mind 3)
          Locates Vampires, Zombies, etc.  Can also determine
     state of mind, if a mind is present.
 
     Diagnosis
     (Life 1, Mind 3)
          The mage can use this rote to determine physical and
     mental health of an individual.    
 
     Encompassing Vision
     (Correspondence 3)
          Gives the Mage 360 degree vision.
 
     Enhanced Senses
     (Life 3)
          Provides 1 extra dot of Perception in any one sense per
     success rolled in the test.  
 
     *Candace's Divination of Personal Facts
     (Life 1, Mind 3)
          Allows the mage to divine personal info about a person. 
     Height, age, real hair color, number of children, etc.  One
     question answered per success.
 
     Mindspeech
     (Mind 3)
          The Mage can speak mind to mind with other people, as
     determined by number of successes.
 
     Osmosis (Personal)
     (Matter 1, Mind 1)
          When this rote is used upon an item, it will allow the
     caster to 'read' the information contained.  Useful for
     books, and other physical media.  For electronic media, use
     Forces 1.  
 
     Patternweave
     (Matter 1)
          The mage can perceive a broken or disassembled item as
     its whole, or unassembled parts as the assembled device. 
     Adds one die per success to any attempts to repair or build.
 
     Red Eyes
     (Forces 3, Prime 2)
          Allows voluntary subject to see in near total darkness. 
     Eyes glow an eerie red with hints of infinite depth.  This
     is a combination of ultraviolet sensitivity, infrared
     sensitivity and active emission of both wavelengths.
 
     *Sense Link
     (Mind 3)
          Allows the Mage to perceive through another's senses.
 
     Speed-Read
     (Mind 1)
          The Mage can read many times faster than normal with
     this effect.  Each success adds 1 to the multiple for
     reading times, starting at 1 for 1 success.
 
     Telescopic Sight
     (Correspondence 2)
          With this, the mage can see distant seens as if they
     were closer, without necessarily moving his viewpoint,
     simply enlarging distant scenes.
 
     ThermoVision
     (Forces 1)
          The Mage can see into the infrared area of the
     spectrum, allowing her to see heat patterns and traces.
 
     Tongues
     (Mind 3)
          The mage can use this effect to understand the
     languages others are speaking.
 
     Ultra-Violet Vision
     (Forces 1)
          Gives the mage the ability to see into the Ultra-Violet
     range, thus receiving excellent night vision.
 
 
                        The Grimoire of 
                    Doxy, the Slightly Crazed
 
     Doxy is a Mage who is well known, if not often seen.  She is
considered to be a borderline Marauder, as she often prefers
minor vulgar effects w/ witnesses to shake up their sleep.  Some
of the below effects are a bit more vulgar than little things,
but she has a flashy side as well.  Also let it be noted that
these Rotes and effects are *rumoured* to be used by her.  Many
are reasonable within the realms of Mage, but at least one might
offend sensibilities (the last one) in which case . . .  it's a
rumor, and not real, except that she does pose as a Werewolf. 
She also poses as a Vampire, but that's more of an appearance
than an actual change.
     Oh yeah, she's either a really weird Orphan or a Discordian,
depending on whether you allow such things.
     Actually, she's an excuse for me to post some Rotes.
 
     Doxy's Cheops
     (Forces 3, Prime 2, Correspondence 4)
          This causes a laser, originating at the target point,
     to fire straight upwards, thus causing an incredible amount
     of electricity to cascade down to the target through the air
     ionized by the laser's passage.  Damage is successes x 2. 
     Sometimes she gets impatient however, and just blasts her
     opponent with the laser.
          Sometimes she just uses Forces 2 with no Prime to call
     the electricity down.  This is also known as a lightning
     strike.
 
     Doxy's Witchfire
     (Forces 3, Prime 2)
          The mage is surrounded by a nimbus of electricity which
     causes successes x 1 damage to any who touch her.  She can
     also discharge a number of lightning bolts each action, each
     of which do successes x 2 damage.  This one requires 5
     Successes for full effect - allows her to discharge
     lightning at all within her vicinity.
 
     Solar Flare
     (Forces 5, Prime 2)
          This creates a stream of solar temperature fire
     anywhere within range and spreading outward away from the
     mage in a cone shape.  Requires at least three successes to
     work properly, but it does successes x 4 damage.  
 
     Doxy's Woeful Glow
     (Entropy 4)
          When cast, the beings affected are illuminated with a
     sickly green light.  All those affected lose any benefits of
     healing, regeneration or other curative effects.  If anyone
     wishes to use healing magic, she must exceed the caster's
     successes with Woeful Glow before gaining any effect.
 
     Doxy's Firefinger
     (Forces 5, Prime 2)
          This causes the mage's hands to be wreathed in flames,
     adding successes x4 to her base damage level.
 
     Doxy's Singing Harp
     (Forces 5, Prime 2)
          This causes any instrument to play itself, or rather,
     be telekinetically played, generally accompanying the mage
     who caused the effect.
 
     Doxy's Singing Telegram
     (Correspondence 4, Forces 4)
          When cast, a small canary appears.  The caster tells it
     what her message is and whom to take it to.  The canary then
     flits off to find the target, provided she is on the same
     plane.  Once arriving at its target point, the canary sings
     the message and disappears.
 
     Doxy's Multiversal Singing Telegram
     (Correspondence 4, Forces 4, Spirit 5)
          As above, but will go anywhere, in the Umbra or beyond.
 
     Doxy's Feast 'Midst the Famine
     (Matter 5)
          Turns anything into suitable, healthy, tasty fare for
     the caster or anyone else without changing its appearance. 
     It also neutralizes any poisons.  Yes, this means you can
     use this to make rocks edible.
 
     Doxy's All Around Turn-Around Kamikaze Killer
     (Correspondence 5)
          Not really a Rote, but an effect that can be quite
     useful nonetheless, this allows a Mage to warp space around
     herself so that any attacks that strike her to actually
     damage a designated target instead.  Can be quite a painful
     surprise.  With extra successes, the Mage may even possibly
     somewhat duplicate the effect of Kick of the Four Winds. 
     Imagine the surprise that Sabbat experiences when after
     clawing you, he feels himself being shredded from all sides
     . . .  Each success beyond those required allows the Mage to
     cause the attack to strike one extra time, or strike an
     extra target.
 
     DotS' Xerox
     (Correspondence 2, Matter 4, Prime 2, Time 2)
          This allows a Mage to look forward or backward to any
     time and/or place, analyze an item's pattern, and re-create
     the item in her own time and location.  A Mage using this
     Rote would rarely have to buy or acquire most items since
     she can simply locate the item she needs and create an exact
     duplicate.
 
     Doxy's Uisgbaugh
     (Forces 3, Life 3, Matter 2, Prime 2)
          Creates a one gallon jug of hot, fresh blood.  This
     blood will remain hot and fresh for the duration of the
     spell.
 
     Micro-Macrocosm or Macro-Microcosm
     (Correspondence 5)
          This spell will make any room larger or smaller without
     affecting the outside appearance.  
 
     Strength of Steel
     (Matter 5)
          This gives any material a net strength many times
     greater than it had before.  With this effect, balsa wood
     could be stronger than the toughest steel alloys.
 
     Doxy's No-Moon Coat of Fur
     (Life 5)
          Doxy uses this effect to assume the form of a Silent
     Strider-Ragabash.  While in this form she has a 'special'
     character sheet listing her Garou abilities.  The actual
     creation of this effect causes Paradox, but the use of her
     Garou shapeshifting abilities and Gifts do *not*.
 
 
                   Genetic Manipulation Rotes
 
          The following Rotes were created by the
     Technolibertarian Candace Lucille Sweetwater, Oracle of
     Life.
 
     Fountain of Youth
     (Life 5)
          This spell reduces the person's age by an amount
     determined by the caster.  Note this does not affect mental
     maturity, simply physical age.
 
     Longevity
     (Life 5)
          This spell deactivates the aging 'clock,' thus granting
     immortality to those who do not possess it.
 
     Genegineer Lab-in-a-Pocket
     (Life 5)
          This is specifically a catch-all Genetic Engineering
     spell.  With it, the Mage can alter her own or another's
     genetic code, and thusly her appearance, or even biological
     capabilities.  The limits are the mage's understanding of
     genetics and imagination.
 
 
                      General Healing Rotes
 
          These Rotes are also the creation of Candace
     Sweetwater.                
 
 
     Chelate Radiation
     (Entropy 3 or Forces 2, Life 3)
          Chelates any and all radiation in the subject's system.
 
     Candy's Cure for the Walking Dead
     (Life 5, Matter 4, Mind 4<?>)
          Returns Vampires to their human state, although with
     their vampiric abilities at least partially intact.
 
     Fertility
     (Life 4)
          Causes an infertile person to be Fertile.  Immediately. 
     Fertility is such that for the duration, pregnancy is
     guaranteed if measures aren't taken.
 
     Full Rest
     (Life 3, Time 3)
          Upon successful casting, the subject (Which may be the
     caster) may then sleep.  The time spent asleep is multiplied
     by the number of successes over 2 to determine how many
     effective hours were spent asleep.
 
     Heart Attack
     (Life 4)
          Causes Successes * 3 Health Levels to the person
     targeted as his heart immediately stops catastrophically.
 
     Immunization
     (Life 5)
          This Rote gives the person it is cast upon immunity to
     any disease for the duration of the effect.
 
     Induce Easy Labor
     (Life 4)
          Causes a difficult labor to become easy, or a late
     labor to begin with ease.  With the aid of this spell,
     complications are unheard of.
 
     Induce Lactation
     (Life 4)
          Causes the subject to begin lactating, as if she has a
     child.  Useful for wet nurses and women who have dried up
     for various reasons.
 
     Induce Menses
     (Life 4)
          Causes a woman to begin menstruating, with a
     commensurate change in cycle.
 
 
     Infection
     (Life 3, Prime 2)
          Creates the microbes/bacteria/virii of a virulent
     disease upon the targeted person, infecting him with the
     disease in question.  Candy created this as a means to test
     her immunization Rote.
 
     Infertility
     (Life 4)
          Causes fertile targets to become infertile.  Great
     birth control method.
 
     Inter-Vitro Adoption
     (Correspondence 4, Life 5)
          This Rote allows the caster to move the fetus, placenta
     etc from one woman's womb to another.  Also prepares the
     receiving woman's body to accept this fetus and eventually
     give birth.  Offered as an alternative to abortion.
 
     *Pain
     (Life 4)
          This causes the person targeted to experience pain as
     if successes * 3 wound boxes were filled in, maximum 6 for a
     -5 penalty to all actions.  Very painful, naturally.  Once
     the duration is over, the pain vanishes.  This pain can be
     anything the mage desires - broken glass, ripping guts,
     whatever.
 
     Parthenogenesis
     (Correspondence 4, Life 5)
          Not technically parthenogenesis in all cases.  This
     Rote allows a woman to be fertilized by another person, male
     or female, or even herself.  This spell corrects for
     possible birth defects and insures they will not be present
     during gestation.
 
     Prevent Labor
     (Life 4)
          Stops an overly premature labor, returning the mother
     to her pre-labor condition, even restoring a broken placenta
     and filling it with amniotic fluid.
 
     Regeneration
     (Life 5)
          The recipient of this spell will eventually regrow lost
     limbs and other body parts.  Will also heal broken spines or
     other 'unhealing' injuries.  Like healing, rolling for
     duration is not necessary.
 
     Stop Lactation
     (Life 5)
          Prevents milk production in a lactating woman.
-----

Marzhavasati Kali
deirdre@efn.org

From server@wizards.com Tue Oct 26 16:25:33 1993
Received: from yang.cpac.washington.edu by mail.nada.kth.se (5.61-bind 1.4+ida/nada-mx-1.0)
	id AA23004; Tue, 26 Oct 93 16:25:27 +0100
Received: from mailgate.omnigroup.com by yang.cpac.washington.edu
	(5.65/internet->uucp gateway 2.4.2) id AA25700; Tue, 26 Oct 93 08:20:54 -0700
Received: from tapir.wizards.com by mailgate.omnigroup.com (NX5.67d/NX3.0M)
	id AA13712; Tue, 26 Oct 93 08:18:21 -0700
Received: by wizards.com (NX5.67d/NX3.0M)
	id AA23753; Tue, 26 Oct 93 08:18:19 -0700
Date: Tue, 26 Oct 93 08:18:19 -0700
Message-Id: <199310261517.AA12488@rac4.wam.umd.edu>
Comment: Mailing list for "Mage: the Ascension"
Originator: mage-l@wizards.com
Errors-To: netsec@wizards.com
Reply-To: mage-l@wizards.com
Sender: mage-l@wizards.com
Version: 5.5 -- Copyright (c) 1991/92, Anastasios Kotsikonas
From: Jack Dracula <vampire@wam.umd.edu>
To: Multiple recipients of list <mage-l@wizards.com>
Subject: Sons of Jupiter Rotes
Status: RO

And now, I proudly present the long-awaited Rotes for the Sons of Jupiter.
Please comment (esp. on the mechanics; those were never my strong suit.)
			SONS OF JUPITER ROTES
IGNORE PAIN (Mind 1, Life 2)
	Allows the mage, through mastery of her own mind, to completely
	remove all pain. [This means no minuses to actions due to 
	damage.] However, this also means that the Mage has only
	a vague idea of how hurt they really are. [The ST should keep
	track of the player's actual damage, only letting the player
	know in vague terms if the player specifically states he is
	looking, "Wahlll, you gots a big gash on yer chest, and yer
	left arm is missing. But yew don't feel it, so's it's okee."]

DOUBLE PAIN (Mind 2)
	This extremely pleasant rote was developed by Jack Corinth, one of
	the stronger disciples among the Sons of Jupiter today. It locks
	on the target's mind, and doubles all pain felt by them. Especially
	fun for fighting those Lupines down the street...[Double the penalties
	for wounds. If the total penalties go over five, the target
	can no longer act, but can only curl up in pain.]

CROWDED ENTRANCE (Correspondence 3, Mind 3, Entropy 1)
	Created as a way of using teleportation coincidentally, the Mage
	a) uses Mind 1: Multi-Tasking to scan the minds of the crowd,
	b) mixes in a little Entropy to find a spot in the crowd no one
	is looking at/sensing directly, and c) Correspondence to teleport
	on in. Great for those quick get-aways.
	
MASTER NINJA TIME ROTE (Time 3, Mind 1, Entropy 1)
	Just the thing for the clever coyote, this Rote can turn anyone
	into a Master Ninja. It was first used by Glen Manning, a Mystery
	Science Theatre fan, who wanted to fight just like the ninjas in
	bad martial arts flicks. [Time slows down for the Mage, who then 
	can use the Dim Mak effect to his the best possible spot on the 
	enemy. Also, absurdly silly but effective dodges are possible, since 
	the attacker is moving in slow motion; -2 to all dodge target
	numbers.]

"KINDRED" SPIRITS (Prime 3, Spirit 3)
	This impolite rote is a dangerous way to get Quintessence from
	smaller spirits. The mage uses Spirit to call a smaller spirit
	[trust me, go for a small one.] which the mage then attacks, 
	and drains the Quintessence from. Also note how dangerous this
	be, as many spirits are but servants of more powerful beings
	you don't want to piss off.
	
FLOODLAND (Mind 3, Entropy 3)
	A great delaying tactics, this rote was invented by Yomphana
	(yoyo), one of the Sons diametrically opposed to the 
	Euthanatos. It floods the target's mind with all sorts of
	random thoughts from everyone in the area. This makes it
	virtually impossible to concentrate on anything. [For every
	success the Mage makes in the roll, take away one dice from
	the target's dice pools.]

BLOOD BOND (Prime 2, Life 3)
	Created by Arctus, this simulated the Vampiric Blood Bond
	by ladening the mage's blood with his own quintessence.
	[The person still needs to taste the Blood three times
	for it to be effective, and the mage will have to sacrifice
	a point of blood, along with the accompanying injury.]

THE NOTICE (Mind 2, Prime 2)
	This hard-to-describe rote creates a 'quintessence sink,'
	which fools any Awakened bengs into thinking that the mage is
	much more powerful than she appears. [Just has some quality of...
	power about her.] At the same time, it sends out a sort of
	'mental beacon' which causes everyone in range to notice
	and look at the Mage at the same time. 

	"(lights cigarette) Nobody touches the boy.
	 That's right. The boy's mine. And in thirty seconds, me, and
	 him, and the witch, are going to walk out of here. You know 
	 who I am. Or you ought to. You know my reputation. Now...
	 does anyone here really want to start something?"
	 				John Constantine, _TBOM_

THE DREAM TIME (Spirit 3, Mind 3)
	This allows the Sons of Jupiter to enter the Chimarae through a
	sleeping person's dreams [yes, you need a sleeping person to do it.
	Please note that the user will have to leave the person's dream
	and enter another dream, but this is usually not too much of a
	problem. Also note how useful that Dream background becomes.]
	
VISION QUEST (Mind 3, Correspondence 1)
	This rote is often used in conjunction with the initiation of
	a new member into the Sons. The Mage taps into the initiate's
	mind, completely controlling the mental landscape and occurences.
	(See _Exorcist 2_ for a good scene.)

LUCRETIA MY REFLECTION (Correspondence 3, Mind 3)
	Allows the caster to communicate with a person by looking
	in a mirror and concentrating on them (it would also help 
	the target wa also looking in a mirror.) Two way communication 
	is possible, but more importantly, it allows the caster to
	telelocate themselves directly to the person (by stepping into
	the mirror.) Created by Stanislaus Silver, who used mirrors
	for most of his foci. [Use ranges for Correspondence, but
	lower difficulty by 1.]

	 					Jack Dracula
"I looked in the trap, Ray." -Egon Spengler, _Ghostbusters_

From server@wizards.com Tue Oct 26 18:08:59 1993
Received: from yang.cpac.washington.edu by mail.nada.kth.se (5.61-bind 1.4+ida/nada-mx-1.0)
	id AA25048; Tue, 26 Oct 93 18:08:55 +0100
Received: from mailgate.omnigroup.com by yang.cpac.washington.edu
	(5.65/internet->uucp gateway 2.4.2) id AA27703; Tue, 26 Oct 93 10:07:35 -0700
Received: from tapir.wizards.com by mailgate.omnigroup.com (NX5.67d/NX3.0M)
	id AA14719; Tue, 26 Oct 93 10:05:02 -0700
Received: by wizards.com (NX5.67d/NX3.0M)
	id AA26949; Tue, 26 Oct 93 10:05:01 -0700
Date: Tue, 26 Oct 93 10:05:01 -0700
Message-Id: <00974989.17C8ECA0.21480@auvax1.adelphi.edu>
Comment: Mailing list for "Mage: the Ascension"
Originator: mage-l@wizards.com
Errors-To: netsec@wizards.com
Reply-To: mage-l@wizards.com
Sender: mage-l@wizards.com
Version: 5.5 -- Copyright (c) 1991/92, Anastasios Kotsikonas
From: Psychomachia <jason@auvax1.adelphi.edu>
To: Multiple recipients of list <mage-l@wizards.com>
Subject: RE: Sons of Jupiter Rotes
Status: RO

In a message of Tue, 26 Oct 93 08:18:19 -0700
Received on Tue, 26 Oct 1993 11:21:02 EDT

Jack Dracula <vampire@wam.umd.edu> wrote
to: Multiple recipients of list <mage-l@wizards.com>

>And now, I proudly present the long-awaited Rotes for the Sons of Jupiter.
>Please comment (esp. on the mechanics; those were never my strong suit.)

Ooh. Jack Drac, you've done it again. These are positively fantastic. I've
snipped a little, but bear with me.

>			SONS OF JUPITER ROTES

>DOUBLE PAIN (Mind 2)
>	This extremely pleasant rote was developed by Jack Corinth, one of
>	the stronger disciples among the Sons of Jupiter today. It locks
>	on the target's mind, and doubles all pain felt by them. Especially
>	fun for fighting those Lupines down the street...[Double the penalties
>	for wounds. If the total penalties go over five, the target
>	can no longer act, but can only curl up in pain.]

<evyl gryn>
                                 
>CROWDED ENTRANCE (Correspondence 3, Mind 3, Entropy 1)
					 ^^^
>	Created as a way of using teleportation coincidentally, the Mage
>	a) uses Mind 1: Multi-Tasking to scan the minds of the crowd,
		    ^^^
>	b) mixes in a little Entropy to find a spot in the crowd no one
>	is looking at/sensing directly, and c) Correspondence to teleport
>	on in. Great for those quick get-aways.

Just curious - which is it, 1 or 3?

>MASTER NINJA TIME ROTE (Time 3, Mind 1, Entropy 1)
>	Just the thing for the clever coyote, this Rote can turn anyone
>	into a Master Ninja. It was first used by Glen Manning, a Mystery
>	Science Theatre fan, who wanted to fight just like the ninjas in
>	bad martial arts flicks. [Time slows down for the Mage, who then
>	can use the Dim Mak effect to his the best possible spot on the
>	enemy. Also, absurdly silly but effective dodges are possible, since
>	the attacker is moving in slow motion; -2 to all dodge target
>	numbers.]

ROTFL. Although really needs to be Mind 3 to implant a cheesy 70's funk theme
song in the mind of the target.

>THE DREAM TIME (Spirit 3, Mind 3)
>	This allows the Sons of Jupiter to enter the Chimarae through a
>	sleeping person's dreams [yes, you need a sleeping person to do it.
>	Please note that the user will have to leave the person's dream
>	and enter another dream, but this is usually not too much of a
>	problem. Also note how useful that Dream background becomes.]
>

This is EXACTLY the effect I was looking for with my previous post - although
I intended to stay in the sleeping persons dream. Works well with the next
one, I find.

>VISION QUEST (Mind 3, Correspondence 1>

>LUCRETIA MY REFLECTION (Correspondence 3, Mind 3)

These two are just exquisite...are we perhaps thinking of changing the Sons
of Jupiter to the Sisters of Mercy?

Oh, as long as I'm here, here's a rote I'd been toying with...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OCCAM'S RAZOR (Entropy 2, Prime 2). Static magic functions through
the creation of coincidences - things that are unlikely, but possible.
Fo example, it is extremely unlikely that a coin flipped 100 times will
land tails up each time. Possible, but extremely unlikely.

Occam's Razor states that explanations that are extremely unlikely should
be rejected in favor of more logical ones. The rote that shares its name
works by lowering the entropy in a system, reducing the random chance that is
necessary for coincidences to succeed. This makes performing static magic
much more difficult - the coincidences simply don't happen.

[Anyone subject to this spell must make an Arete roll (diff 7)
each time she performs static magic, the number of successes dependent
on the outlandishness of the coincidence desired. Failure means the
spell dissipates unaccomplished. A botch means that the spell manifests in
the most vulgar manner possible.]

Comments, suggestions, and assorted flatteries always welcome.

Psychomachia- jason@auvax1.adelphi.edu


