From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Mon Mar 27 17:55:08 1995
Date: Mon, 27 Mar 1995 17:55:06 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
To: wod-l <wod-l@netcom.com>
Subject: The Society of Sentinels
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.91N2.950327175330.11418A-100000@hemul.nada.kth.se>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Status: O
X-Status: 

The Society of Sentinels

Although officially accepted by the other traditions, the Sons of Ether
and Virtual Adepts are watched suspiciously by many tradition mages.
After all, the two traditions are technomancers, and who knows where
their real loyalties lie? 

The Society of Sentinels are an informal group of mages who keep an eye
on the activities of the tradition technomancers and their sympathisers.
They originally came into existence shortly after the Sons of Ether broke
free and joined the traditions. Several groups of mages had repeatedly
pointed out that the traditions were in danger of being infiltrated by
the Technocracy on a huge scale by agents and collaborators within the
Etherites, not to mention forced to accept techno-magick as a valid form
of magick. If they accepted the Sons of Ether, the Traditions were in
danger of becoming more like the technomancers themselves. Most other
mages were however delighted with the opportunity to increase their
numbers and weaken the Technocracy, and regarded the sceptics as
overcautious conservatives. 

In the years after the defection, some of the mages who had protested met
with each other, summoned by the influential Chorist bishop Klaus
Wollheim of Aedes Lucis Dei . They discussed how things had gone, and
while they agreed that some of their fears had been unfounded, the threat
still remained. The Sons of Ether were now moving among the traditions,
learning things about chantries and internal politics which could greatly
harm the Traditions if ever the Technocracy got wind of it. The bishop
proposed that the participants and their friends would form an informal
network in order to counter the growing infiltration and root out
Technocracy infiltrators. After some debate about the technical details
and exact aim, they agreed and formed the Society of Sentinels (Societas
Custorum). Its purpose was to secretly keep watch over the Etherites and
their sympathisers, carefully monitoring their activities for signs of
treachery and the elimination of Technocracy agents. The Society
consisted of several independent groups, linked by a network of magickal
communication and secret codes. 

The Sentinels had some initial success a few years later in the Goldstein
case. A Son of Ether involved in the development of radio communications
was found to be a Technocracy agent leaking vital information to the
enemy using his devices. The Sentinels made the treachery public and
Goldstein disappeared, probably killed by mages from the chantry he had
betrayed. After that event several more mages joined the ranks of the
Sentinels. Over the years they built up a network of contacts and allies
among the traditions. When the Virtual Adepts defected, the Sentinels did
their best to convince the traditions not to admit them, but failed again
mainly due to the efforts of the Sons of Ether. At a secret meeting of
the most influential members, the Sentinels decided to watch over the
Virtual Adepts too. 

The Society of Sentinels are strongest in Europe, where some of their
most influential members control several of the old and great chantries.
The old core of conservative hermetic and chorus mages still have much
power (Bishop Klaus Wollheim has retired as nominal leader in favor of
his pupil Deacon Nicolai Krantz, also of Aedes Lucis Dei), but the
Dreamspeakers, Verbena and Cultists have become a dynamic part of the
Society. It is very discreet, and most members meet in informal groups
with no ties to each other. The members generally behave and work as
usual, but always keep an eye for Technocracy infiltration and the
activities of the Sons of Ether and Virtual Adepts. If they notice
something suspicious, they contact the Society which will investigate
further. These investigations are very subtle, often employing mages from
outside the society as investigators or dupes. The Society seldom takes
action against offenders, preferring to leak the information to other
mages (especially such groups as the Brotherhood of Bertrando or the
Quaesitors of Order of Hermes). 

The Society is not without internal schisms. The main cause of
disagreement is between the conservatives of Order of Hermes and the
Celestial Chorus, who just want to make sure the technomancers stay put
and don't threaten the traditions, and hardliners from the Verbena and
Dreamspeakers who want to find ways to expel them from the traditions
altogether. The conservatives claim that it would be both hard and
dangerous, and would risk exposing the Society. The radicals regard the
conservatives as too cautious and afraid of taking action. Another cause
of arguments is whether to allow loyal Sons of Ether or Virtual Adepts to
help the society or even join. Apparently some Adepts have formed their
own group of Sentinels, known as the Supervisor Mode, to watch over their
own tradition and eliminate outside infiltration. To make matter even
more complicated, the Supervisor Mode is rumoured to be linked to radical
Virtual Adepts working against radical nature-oriented mages, which makes
the Radicals very suspicious against the group. 

The Society has succeeded quite well in hiding its existence. It is no
secret that there are mages sceptical to the tradition technomancers, but
the idea that they are organised is generally regarded as yet another
conspiracy theory (this is of course encouraged by the Sentinels, who
gladly adds outrageous rumours to make the theory even more silly). The
Supervisor Mode suspects there is some kind of resistance, judging from
the results of their computer simulations, but have so far not been able
to prove it. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




