From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Mon Aug 16 21:00:26 1996
Status: RO
X-Status: A
Received: from comp.uark.edu (root@comp.uark.edu [130.184.253.197])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id VAA15533 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Fri, 16 Aug 1996 21:00:22 +0200
Received: from localhost (sbabb@localhost) by comp.uark.edu (8.7.5/8.7.3) with SMTP id NAA12150; Fri, 16 Aug 1996 13:55:06 -0500 (CDT)
Date: Fri, 16 Aug 1996 13:55:05 -0500 (CDT)
From: "D.J." <sbabb@comp.uark.edu>
To: CONSTANTINE THOMAS <c.thomas1@lancaster.ac.uk>
cc: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>, Trudi.Topham@net-tel.co.uk,
        "Dr. Vorstead" <vorstead@acpub.duke.edu>
Subject: SEX!  Updated for the 90's!
Message-ID: <Pine.SOL.3.94.960816132045.505A-100000@comp.uark.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

WARNING:  Some of the concepts and ideas contained within may be offensive to 
some readers.  This is also by NO MEANS meant to be a presentation of real 
world attitudes.  Also, please understand that these are NOT necessarily my 
views, and that when I use the term "homosexual" I'm (usually) implying both 
male and female homosexuals (I didn't feel like typing "homosexual and 
lesbian" when lesbian would be redundant).

	I'd also like to thank Anders Sandberg (input on Akashics and
Euthanatos, Chorus, Hermetics, and a bit on the Technocracy) and Trudi
Topham (Sons of Ether)

GENDER, SEXUALITY, AND SEX MAGICK IN MAGE

	The following is an attempt to elaborate upon the views held by the 
various groups and factions within Mage society.  However, mages are (as in 
all things) an individualistic lot, and the following only represents the 
broadest and most pervasive of attitudes held within a particular group.  
Individuals may differ.

TRADITIONS:  The Traditions practice a wide variety of beliefs and magicks, to
reflect the wide variety of their paradigms.  For instance, Brothers, 
Cultists, Verbena, and even a few (radical) Choristers have all been known to 
practice sex magick, but each group sees it in a different way.

Akashic Brotherhood:  "Inner harmony is all that is essential.  The concerns 
of the body are secondary to those of the mind."
	The Akashics see no important difference between men and women.  While
a grasshopper is not a cricket, neither is a cricket a grasshopper, and yet 
both are more similar than dissimilar.  So it is with men and women.  The 
Akashics do not discriminate, and their use of Brotherhood is one without 
gender-biased connotations.
	Sexuality is a matter of the flesh, love a matter of the mind.  The 
Akashics have no interest for or against any particular desire, and instead 
focus on what brings them inner peace.  If they find contentment with a member
of the same sex, they will seek to achieve that stability.  However, Akashics 
often take vows of abstinence in order to avoid the urges of the body,
and avoid a focus on their physical desires (but such vows are by no means 
universal).  However, due to their ties with eastern philosophy and
tradition, many Akashics actively condemn homo- and bisexuality.  Such
acts, along with anal and oral sex among heterosexuals, is seen as
"impure" temptations.
	While some Akashics also practice some form or another of Tantric
Yoga (provided they haven't devoted themselves to the life of a monk),
many more do not.  For those Akashics that do use sexual magicks, it is
done in order to better achieve inner balance, and not some satiation of
lust or perceptual expansion.  An Akashic may discover that it instead
detracts from his balance and cease sexual activity altogether (becoming 
celibate, as mentioned above).

Celestial Chorus:  "The man in the woman, and the woman in the man.  It was 
all for the union."
	The Chorus sees men and women in equal lights, but MANY members do 
hold one gender in contempt over the other.  Judeo-Christian and Muslim 
Choristers are renowned for their negative views of women (even though not all
are sexist).  However, every religion is known for both male and female 
miracle workers, and the Chorus seeks to keep both genders respected within 
all religions.  
	The issue of sexuality is a touchy one for the Chorus.  Many members 
are homosexual or bisexual, but hide their orientation for fear of expulsion 
from their holy work.  In recent years there has been a growing movement for 
hetero-, homo- and bisexual Choristers to promote a more tolerant attitude 
among the Chorus (and religions) as a whole.  This movement has met with only 
limited success.  Even heterosexual members balk at the oftentimes restrictive
and reproductive-oriented nature of the various religions.  In fact, some
religions are go the other extreme, seeing sex as a sacrament to be
partaken in as often as possible (occasionally with as many as possible).
Whatever attitude towards sex that is taken by a Chorister, it will be
taken for religious reasons; while the mage may dislike or diagree with
it, he can not deny his faith to appease his sensibility.
	Strangely enough, the Chorus has sex magick of a sort.  Sanctified, 
married couples engage in the most holy of acts, the conception of life; the 
Verbena share this belief, but the two groups rapidly begin disagreeing on 
what constitutes "marriage" and "in the eyes of God".  Also, more liberal 
factions in the Catholic Church are trying to promote a more accepting stance 
on married sex with excerpts from the "Song of Solomon" (such as 2.6)
among other pieces of Scripture.

Cult of Ecstasy:  "Free your mind, and your ass will follow."
	Discrimination?  Not here.  No way.  The biggest "gender gap" the Cult
 regularly sees is a male member getting a female member "in trouble", but 
Life magicks can prevent such mistakes before they occur.  It could be said 
that men among the Cult only use the women for their personal pleasure and 
that few really care about another, but the same can just as easily be said 
about the women in the Cult.
	A reverse form of discrimination almost exists when sexual orientation
is involved.  Monogamous heterosexuals and homosexuals are at a distinct 
disadvantage when dealing with their mentors.  They must choose between 
staying faithful to just one person or gaining new insights into the universe,
and they must also choose to remain with only partners of one sex, or 
alternate with others.  Bisexual, non-monogamous Cultists have the easiest 
time, as they are able to experience more sensations from more people.
Also, the Cult holds that there are different kinds of sex, based on the
commitment and attachment to the person involved, from almost casual Low
Sex, the combination of love and pleasure in Middle Sex, to the deeply
connected (and mystical) High Sex.
	The Cult is famous for its use of sex magicks.  Drunken orgies of 
dozens of people are seen as being just as effective as more "individual" 
experiences.  But for the Cult, it isn't the act that's important, it's the 
opening of one's perceptions.  For some (but by no means not all) Cultists, 
sexual experience becomes like a drug: they become habituated to the dosage 
they used to take and need either stronger doses, or new treatments.  These 
Cultists are the most likely to engage in the more "bizarre" acts, with even 
more exotic partners (such as Umbrood).

Dreamspeakers:  "The joining of the flesh, can only lead to the joining of the 
spirit."
	The Dreamspeakers are the most individualistic of the Traditions, and 
their views on gender are no exception.  Some conservative Dreamspeakers 
believe that only men can be of any importance, and for others women are the 
true leaders and shamans.  Some Dreamspeakers even claim to have chosen
which tribe they were born into, based on how the tribe (mis)treated men
and women.
	Sex is seen as pleasurable and a means of reproduction.  Homosexuals 
and bisexuals are tolerated somewhat more by Dreamspeakers than others, but 
this is not a constant throughout the Tradition.  Monogamy isn't the only path
taken by the Dreamspeakers; wives are shared among friends in some tribes, 
while another tribe may have women with three husbands.  Many Dreamspeakers 
have found sex (and love) among shapeshifters and strange spirits, and have 
forsaken their ties with their world to be with their loves.
	Sex magick is not unknown among the Dreamspeakers, but it tends to be 
for reproductive purposes only.  However, some Dreamspeakers use sex rituals 
to reinforce the emotional bonds between themselves and their partners after 
the two have had an emotional "falling out".  However, the orgiastic practices
of the Cultists are practically unknown.

Euthanatos:  "We are born, we give life to others, and we pass on."
	The Euthanatos are still highly sexist in nature for the most part.  
While many women are (impressive) members of the Euthanatos, the topmost ranks
are run almost exclusively by men.  Millennia of tradition and ritual among 
those who harvest human life does not change easily.  
	While the Euthanatos can understand homosexuality and bisexuality, 
they do not support it.  They see such paths as being "dead ends" in the Wheel
of Life.  However, the majority do not see homosexuality as grounds for the 
Good Death.  Instead, they try to promote such individuals to either change 
their sexuality or to enhance their life.  Some sects of Euthanatos are more 
liberal of course, but they are by no means main stream.
	Sex magick is used in ways similar to that of the Chorus and the 
Dreamspeakers: it is a source of emotional unity and life.  Most Euthanatos 
find the beauty and value of (hetero) sexuality to be wasted on anything less 
like bashing HIT Marks.  However, there are some groups who (secretly)
practice necrophilic rituals in honor of Kali, to appease the dead and
reinforce the ties between life and death.  The exact practices of such
groups are kept quiet to reduce any possible growth in the negative image
of the Euthanatos.

Order of Hermes:  "The conception occurred during the alignment of Pluto with 
Algol.  Truly, the child is damned."
	Sexism and the Hermetics almost go hand in hand.  While women are 
welcomed, they are seldom allowed the same perks and advantages as men are.  
However, because of these limitations, women who achieve ranks of power and 
prestige unquestionably deserve it.
	Hermetics support heterosexuality.  Anything other is seen 
as bestial, and condemned.  In addition, many cabals (but not all) of
Hermetics place strict rules on their members' sexuality, seeing sex as a
distraction from the study and mastery of the Art. 
	The Hermetics' view of sex magick is almost identical to that of the 
Verbena: semen and menstrual blood (and other objects) are objects of power.  
However, for a Hermetic the uses and significance of such fluids (and the act 
itself) are based on more of an alchemical or bartering view.  For instance, a
potion for fertility may require menstrual blood specially prepared for 13 
hours inside a beaker filled with manganese and ground mandrake surrounded by 
a silver rimmed pentacle.  Or perhaps a Hermetic may require six liters of 
semen, kept in six separate containers, from six different men in order to 
secure the services of an Incubus.

Sons of Ether:  "Mankind was not meant to know the secrets I'm about to 
reveal.  Now, where'd I put that Vaseline?"
	The Sons of Ether still live with a Victorian "Gentleman's"
attitude.  Women should be kept away from "the work" of Science, for fear
it will disturb them or cause them unneeded stress and complication.  The
men in the Sons don't want to see them upset or unsullied by the demands
of research and (occasionally harmful) experimentation.  Many female Sons,
preferring to choose their own way in life, retaliate against
the males with everything from a desire for equal treatment to blatant
hostility.  While the men hide their sexism behind shields of concern
(sometimes sincere, sometimes not), the women openly express their sexual
biases. 
	While the Sons are still "good old boys" and staunchly against 
homosexuality, the ranks of the Sons still has its share of homosexuals
and bisexuals.  For the most part the Sons either condemn and hinder 
such members (pushing them to the ranks of the Technocracy or worse) 
or ignore and hide such "deviants" if no other option is feasable, but woe
be to any lesbians revealed within the Sons.  Such women are seen as
confused and irrational, and useless to the pursuit of Science.
	Sex magick per se doesn't exist amongst the Sons.  But occasionally 
some ambitious Scientist may develop a theory about prolonging male sexual 
stamina, or desire to see exactly HOW perfect his creation is.  In such cases,
Scientists conduct detailed, intensive studies of the act, considering
other (non-physical) aspects of sex only when important to the theory.

Verbena:  "The passion, the blood.  The beat of two hearts and the cooling of 
sweat.  These will set you free."
	Sexism even exists in this most ancient of Traditions.  However, 
unlike the majority of other Traditions, the sexists among the Verbena are 
women.  While not all Verbena engage in sexism, there are many who hold the 
men amongst them with everything from blunt contempt to slight patronizing.  
However, while female bigotry is common within the Verbena, it is NOT the 
attitude of the majority.
	The Verbena welcome members of all sexual orientations, a practice 
that others find confusing and "against nature".  However, to a Verbena, the 
passion and energy of two bodies is important, and not the gender of those 
involved.  It is this acceptance of love and sex of all forms that attracts 
many homosexuals and bisexuals from joining the stricter Chorus and 
Euthanatos.
	While Verbena and Cultists share many similar beliefs towards sex 
magick, they differ as well.  Both see it as a valuable sensation, unique in 
the world.  However, the Verbena also value the desire the and the passion, 
instead of focusing on the sensation.  For the Verbena, sex (in any form) is a
natural expression of the body's urges and desires.  The fluids symbolize 
life, passions represent the desire to live, and the orgasm symbolizes 
happiness at being alive.

Virtual Adepts:  "Ever notice how many women on the net are really men off it?"
	Gender is highly irrelevant to those who can enter the Digital Web and
turn themselves into pure energy.  Some rare few think of the Web as a "men 
only" playground (or a "women only" playground), but these are an 
insignificant minority at most.
	Sexuality, like Gender, is fluid to the Adepts.  While many have their
preference and stick with it, others adapt a different gender and attempt to 
seduce heterosexual members of their own.  In the Web, things can become even 
more muted, as Adepts couple in ways undreamed of by normal humanity.  One 
rogue visitor to the Web reported taking the form of an algorithm and merging 
strings of calculations with another forming a bizarre Mobius strip like 
construction of numerical equations.
	Besides adopting uniquely impossible forms in the Web and engaging in 
seductive mind magicks during "cybersex" with Sleepers (and other on-line 
mages outside of the Web), the Adepts have little to do with sex magick.  But 
the Cult of Ecstasy keeps on trying to merge Virtual Reality with 
mind-altering sex; some day perhaps....


The Technocracy
	The Technocracy as a whole is thought of as being nothing more than 
sexist, male supremacist, bigots.  All of these are nothing more than 
propaganda the Technocracy spreads to keeps its enemies in the dark about its 
true nature.  Every secret hidden, every lie believed, the Technocracy feels 
that much more secure.
	Of course, bigoted sexists (of all genders and sexualities) do exist.
They just don't make the policies of the Conventions as a whole.

New World Order:  "Homosexuality is the best cover an agent can have."
	The NWO values women and men equally.  Successful completion of a 
mission is more important than gender.  The Technocracy admits that the 
majority of world governments and information services are male dominated, but
the NWO quickly points out the women omnipresent everywhere and the power 
their "inferiority" provides.  While the foolish Sleeper senator overlooks his
token "skirt" secretary, she's subtly manipulating his opinions with hidden 
Devices and psychology, and he's none the wiser.
	Same as with gender, sexuality isn't important, success is.  If an 
objective would best be fulfilled with a homosexual agent, then a homosexual 
member is assigned the task.  If sexuality doesn't matter, than the best agent
for the task is assigned, regardless of sexual orientation.  Some in the NWO 
have suggested that agents be "programmed" with bisexual inclinations to allow
them greater flexibility in fulfilling their objectives.  The leaders of the 
Convention are still undecided.  Among the Masses however, the NWO is changing
their policy: they now are trying to actively promote acceptance of 
homosexuals for a variety of reasons (some of which are listed below).
Also, the NWO (and Syndicate) actively promote an attitude among the
Masses that sex is not a mystical, enlightening, special act, but
a quick blow job in a parked car with someone you don't even know.  This
attitude is spread through every medium imaginable, from music videos to
film to television commercials.  "The person isn't impotant.  Getting some
is," is the message to the Masses.
	Sex magick does not really exist among the NWO.  Instead, sex is used 
to incriminate and control others.  Videotape a politician with a prostitute 
and use the tape to "persuade" the man.  Seduce a member of the NRA to 
manipulate her and her plans for the organization.  While these ideas are 
nothing new, the NWO (using Mind magicks and its mastery of psychology) have 
taken them to levels even other mages have trouble believing.

Iteration X:  "I don't care how big they are, they're NOT going to impress 
that robot."
	Gender is irrelevant except to breed.  While the Computer sees the 
value of gender in influencing those outside of Iteration X, within the 
Convention sexism is seen as a waste of energy and thought.  The Matriarch of 
MECHA is a prime example of this.
	Sexuality is also irrelevant.  While the Computer acknowledges the 
logic of enforcing heterosexuality, robotic intelligence will have neither 
need for gender nor for sex.  As such, the Computer has dictated that 
sexuality is unimportant, and that sex (of any kind) is a submission to the 
flesh and an escape from logic.  If an Iterator wants a child, let him build a
robot.
	Sex magick?  If an Iterator can overcome his programming enough to 
desire it, that's magickal enough.

Progenitors:  "In just seven days, I can make you a man."
	With the invention of artificial wombs and zygote creation through 
gene splicing, gender is highly irrelevant to the convention.  Of course, 
there are still sexists even among the Progenitors, trying to build the 
superior man (or woman), but these extremists are soon reminded that the 
Progenitors' goal is to improve humanity, not just a part of it.
	Again, the creation of artificial wombs and gene-splicing allows 
homosexuals the ability to conceive children of their own, helping to make 
sexuality just as irrelevant as gender.  However, the Progenitors have yet to 
decide when and how to promote these changes to the Masses.  Homophobia and 
belief in the "sacredness" of human life may delay these technologies for 
decades.  This and other pressures has caused the NWO to re-evaluate the role 
of homosexuals and bisexuals within the world.
	Sex magick doesn't really exist in the Convention.  However, the 
Progenitors do engage in cross-species fertilization, "breeding" animals with 
animals (and sometimes humans) by crossing genetic structures.  In the past 
this breeding was a bit more literal, leading to legends of the Minotaur and 
his conception.

Syndicate:  "The world's oldest profession."
	Gender doesn't matter.  Profit does.  The Syndicate will exploit 
whoever and whatever to make a buck.  False breast implants in magazines, fake
muscle implants on TV shows, and cosmetic beautification everywhere.  The 
Syndicate makes you pay to tell you what to want and then makes you pay to get
it, only to change what is wanted and start the cycle all over again.  Whether
a man sells women or a woman sells men (or any other variation), as long as a 
profit is being made the leaders of the Syndicate don't care.  Results are all
that matters.
	Sexual orientation is another source of profit.  Pornography is 
designed for every taste, not just heterosexual males anymore.  Sex toys, sex 
clubs, "massage parlors", the Syndicate has thousands of ways to market sex in
all its forms and varieties.  And not only the actual act is sold, but
"acceptance courses", how-to videos other goodies are available to
overexpose and trivialize the act in all its forms.  In fact, the only sex
magick the Syndicate knows is how to turn a fuck into a buck.

Void Engineers:  "To boldly go where no person has gone before."
	The Void Engineers have tried to eradicate sexism from within their 
ranks.  Women are just as likely to hold a high ranking position as men.  As 
with so many other factions in the Technocracy, gender is secondary to getting
the job done.
	By adopting the artificial wombs and genetic cloning techniques of the
Progenitors, the Void Engineers have destroyed the "stranglehold" 
heterosexuality once held on reproduction.  With that barrier overcome, the 
Engineers hold little interest in sexuality.  However, for long missions into 
unknown territory the Engineers do consider the sexuality of those they send 
and temporarily sterilize all operatives sent (for fear of the effects an 
alien territory might have on a developing fetus).  In more controlled areas, 
the Engineers may send "colonists" of all types to further control an area 
(such plans are being developed for colonies on the moon and Mars).
	Sex magick is virtually unknown to the Engineers.  However, some of 
them keep detailed records of ALL aspects of the beings encountered.  Cult of 
Ecstasy members might find such records interesting.


Marauders and Nephandi
	Sometimes there comes a point when sex begins to enter a realm of 
darkness and madness.  Many people never reach (or fall) that far, and engage 
in merely different acts (as opposed to down right immoral and indecent).
	Many Nephandi find the descent to be to much, even for them, and 
become K'lasshaa.  Many Marauders, despite their delusions, succumb to the 
darker sides of sex and become Fallen.  Of course, members of both groups 
remain in one factions without joining the other when sex is concerned, but 
many more come to embrace the fullest darkness that sex has to offer.
	Both the Marauders and the Nephandi are heavily influenced by the 
belief of the Masses: sexual "deviations" are seen as signs of spiritual 
and/or mental corruption, pushing many people into the ranks of the Fallen and
the Mad.  The Technocracy knows these beliefs give strength to their enemies, 
and have taken many steps to eradicate such attitudes from the paradigms.  But
ancient prejudices don't die easily, and the hostility of Sleepers adds to the
strength of their true adversaries.


Marauders:  "Kiss me, Charlie!  Ravish me!  But no tongues y'hear?  Not on our
first date."
	Gender?  I hardly even know 'er!  Marauders don't care if you're a 
man, a woman, or some other thing never even dreamed of.  At least some don't.
Others are the most homicidal women haters and androphobic men mutilators the 
world has ever seen.  As in all other things, the Marauders are the eternal 
individuals.
	Sexuality is an interesting topic where Marauders are concerned.  They
can be aroused by the most bizarre things.  Pyromaniacal men who can orgasm 
three times in five minutes with NO stimulation other than watching a house 
burn down are not unknown.  Others become so dysfunctional that they equate 
pain with pleasure, or need intercourse with corpses to feel "fully 
functional".  There has even been one case where an incest victim
willingly plotted with her abusive father to kill her mother (the father's 
wife) in order to continue having sex with her father.  And these are only 
among Sleepers.  Many Marauders have been known to engage in even more bizarre
practices (such as one who was convinced that she could only orgasm while 
masturbating with a dildo made of solidified light as Mickey Mouse screamed in
the background, while surrounded by dozens of surprised onlookers).
	As if that wasn't enough, the beliefs of the Masses have been enough 
to push otherwise normal mages into the ranks of the Mad Ones.  In those times
when the Masses look upon homosexuality and bisexuality as a form of mental 
illness, many such mages have fallen insane.  By no means not every such mage,
but enough for the NWO to remove homosexuality as a mental disorder from it's 
DSM (as of the DSM IV).  Even treating those homosexuals who think they have a
"disorder" is now frowned upon by the NWO and the psychological community.  Of
course, numerous Marauders "created" by their sexuality still exist (see "Dr. 
Vorstead" by me for one example).
	Marauders and sex magick bring up another mind boggling topic.  With 
their reality warping abilities and their altered mind frames, literally 
anything can develop sexual power to a Marauder.  Spontaneous conceptions 
inside of men are not uncommon, as is the very presence of a Marauder mutating
the genders of all present into hermaphroditic hybrids.  Some time normal 
intercourse is the "trigger", other times a flaming ice cream cone stuck in a 
horse's eye while three children recite the two hundred and sixteen names of 
God is needed.

Nephandi:  "Shhhh.  Don't cry.  It'll be our secret."
	Genders aren't important.  As with Marauders, all kinds fall to their 
darker lusts from time to time.  Men and women are the most common Nephandi, 
but all manner of other sexes exist among the Fallen.  As with Homosexuality 
and Marauders, the beliefs of the Masses in previous times have had influence 
among the Nephandi.  Many women in past ages, believed cursed through Eve's 
actions, were pushed into the ranks of the Nephandi by Sleepers (and Mages) 
who preached against the "evils of women".  However, in more recent years this
belief has been whittled away by the Technocracy.
	Sexuality has also been a target of persecution throughout the ages.  
While homosexuality and bisexuality have often been branded as "evil" and 
"sinful" (more so than heterosexuality at least), almost all forms of sex have
been declared wrong from one time to another, usually by the local religions 
but also by local governments.  These persecutions and beliefs have driven 
many normal and decent individuals to embrace the darkness.
	Nephandic sex magick usually revolves around either corruption or 
disgust of a target.  Legends of succubi and inccubi persist even today, 
stories of supernatural creatures using sex to condemn the souls of others and
breed new evils upon the world.  However, Nephandi also use sex magicks to 
twist and alter the bodies of individuals and fill them with feelings of self 
loathing and disgust.  Sometimes they will turn the target into Fomori, 
othertimes they will make them vomit things that disgust them, some simply 
spread diseases like HIV to their target.  Whatever happens to the person, it 
will hopefully destroy their sense of self worth and plunge them into despair 
and darkness.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

"The only thing I hate about lesbians is that they get more p---y than I 
do!!!"  -D.J.B.





