From nv91-asa@lurkers.nada.kth.se Thu Jun 30 15:21:37 1994
Date: Fri, 24 Jun 1994 16:02:20 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@somme.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Re: Shard Realms
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9406241620.C5212-0100000@somme.nada.kth.se>

According to the book (somewhere), the shard realms were originally parts
of Earth that broke free and became some kind of gateways to the outer
realms. Perhaps they were mythical lands which disappeared (Atlantis as
the Shard Realm of Matter or Forces?). Perhaps they were actual places
which fitted their spheres extremely well, and when the spheric realms
moved away from earth they were ripped loose. After that, they began to
become more alien as they were influenced by their spheres but not as much
by the normal world. However, they are still the links between the
physical world and the abstract realms of the spheres, a mix between the
real world and the umbra. Here are some ideas: 

Correspondence: A great plain covered with crossroads which lead to all
places in the universe. Highways, paths, channels, streets and roads
criss-cross the landscape. Stairs leads down into the Labyrinth beneath,
here and there oddly built houses contain doors into every other building.
In the air swallows fly among airplanes and other flying beings. By moving
just a bit you can get anywhere. Resonance make people want to move, to
explore or make them get lost in the wastness. 

Entropy: Partially described in the Book of Chantries. Described as a
great wasteland covered with bones. Decay is everywhere. I would think it
also involves infinite plains of gravel, deserts and badlands. There is no
life anywhere, decay and hopelessness is everywhere. Resonance spreads
corruption and apathy. 

Forces: Partially described in Book of Chantries. Mountainous, with
volcanoes, storms, lightening and earthquakes. Power is everywhere, and
resonance makes people seek power, both physical, political and spiritual. 

Life: A great jungle, filled with life from every possible period of time.
Life is everywhere, everything is alive and struggling for survival.
Resonance make people cast of the illusions of civilization and reason and
indulge in the pure pleasure of living. Take a close look at Gaia in the
Kult supplement Legions of Darkness for an idea of how this realm works. 

Matter: A subterranean kingdom, where the inhabitants build wast cities
out of rock, metals and wood. Great chasms are bridged by ingenious
bridges, walls are covered with strange crystals and unknown minerals. 
Lakes of strangely colored water are inhabited by weird fishes encrusted
with salt. Glowing rocks light up the passages, and metallic mushrooms
grow in the cracks in the walls. 

Mind: A great city, where philosophers, artists and mages in toga wander
beneath great marble temples to different emotions, thoughts, ideas or
states of mind. People are everywhere, all filled with emotions and ideas
and also representing them. The calm philosophers discuss with the
expressive artists, while the hateful traitors eternally plot and the
passionate lovers seek their lost love. Resonance tries to make visitors
behave like an archetype fitting them. 

Spirit: A misty moor, where old oaks and monoliths dot the landscape. The
mists seem to dance between the ancient stone-circles and still pools, and
unheard voices whisper secrets in the wind. Sometimes vague outlines of
creatures can be seen through the mists, or strange sounds are heard. 
Resonance makes visitors start to whisper and move stealthily, carefully
observing the secret signs and portents around them,. 

Prime: An ocean dotted with small islands. Everything is translucent, as
if the underlying structures are revealed. In the sea, shining beings hunt
the currents of energy, and in the air glowing fields of power sometimes
form intense lines of light. The beaches are filled with sparkling sand,
as if they were made of diamonds. Everything is changeable, and by simply
forming something out of something else it can be brought into existence. 

Time: An old forest, covering ancient ruins. The roots of great trees
burrow into the ground, uncovering entrances to a subterranean labyrinth
below. Inside the crumbling ruins are faded paintings and engravings
depicting historical events, both past and future. Eroded statues of
unknown people guard the doorways into the dark and dusty tunnels under
the ruins, where strange inscriptions and crumbling scrolls describe
distant times. Resonance fills visitors with respect and a feeling of age. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




