From: Blake (blake1001@technologist.com)
Subject: Re: [Mage] Beginner Rote Ideas
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller,alt.games.whitewolf.mage
Date: 19 Jun 1997 11:07:02 -0700
Organization: Virtual Adepts
Path: news.kth.se!nntp.uio.no!news.radio.cz!news-feed.inet.tele.dk!cpk-news-hub1.bbnplanet.com!news.bbnplanet.com!feed1.news.erols.com!zdc!super.zippo.com!szdc!zippo!drn
Lines: 176
Message-ID: <5obsg6$1qa@drn.zippo.com>
References: <5o6r9u$kg0$1@news-2.csn.net> <5o9idk$b3g@drn.zippo.com>
X-No-Archive: Yes
Xref: news.kth.se rec.games.frp.storyteller:73406


>In article <5o6r9u$kg0$1@news-2.csn.net>, mcrouch@csn.net says...
>
>>	I have just begin playing in a Mage chronicle and am still
>>familiarizing myself with the rules of the magic system. My GM is allowing
>>beginning characters to know three rotes, either real or made up. My
>>sphere levels aren't equivalent to what's in the Player's guide (the only
>>book I have after the main rules), so I was wondering if anyone could make
>>any suggestions for what I have to work with. I'm playing an Euthan who is
>>a believer that conflict helps people achieve ascention. I'm starting with
>>entropy 2, forces 1, life 2, mind 1, and prime 1.  Any help would be
>>appreciated.
>>Thank you.
>>
>>Matt
>
>From the begining, Mage has been pretty light on the low-level rotes.
>I have a number of 1 and 2 dot Rotes written up from when I started, and
>I'll post or mail them to you when I get the chance. 

Hope you like "Slowing the Wheel."  Here are some from my personal Rote
Library. Some of them are very V-dept oriented, but I'm sure you can 
bring them around to a Euthanotos aproach.  (Warning most of these came
from when I first started and may still have some 1st Edition stuff in
them).

Pain Resistance   Mind *  Life *
     A classic Akashic Rote that builds a serene haven for the
Brother's mind, neutralizing excessive amounts of pain that might
hamper the mage's ability to function.  Pain Resistance is
dangerous because the mage using it cannot tell the severity of
her injury without carefully examining her pattern.  She can feel
enough to tell she was hurt and where the damage is but not how
dangerous it is.  In any case, the Rote in no way reduces the
damage taken.
     [Each success reduces the penalty and action restrictions on
the wound chart by one level.  The mage can even act while
Incapacitated for up to one turn per success.  Duration is
otherwise normal.  If the mage takes particularly strenuous or
inappropriate actions, the Storyteller may call for  a Stamina
Roll (Difficulty = current wound level + 3) to avoid taking an
additional wound.]

Lightning Calculator   Mind *
     This Rote allows the mage to utilize the brain's vast,
untapped computational power.  While it is in effect, the mage
can perform mathematical calculations at a rate rivalling the
most powerful computers.
     [Successes indicate the speed at which the mage can perform
computations: 1 to 3 grant normal computer speeds from micro to
mainframe, 4 give the mage the power of a super computer, and 5
or more allow virtually impossible computations (the kind it
would take a Cray centuries to solve.  Successes can be added
directly to appropriate actions like cryptography.]
     F/X - This Rote remains Static at the level of 1 to 3
successes, at higher levels it must be covered with Coincidental
Effects of some sort.

Eidetic Memory   Mind *
     This Rote allows the mage to remember large amounts of data
with perfect clarity.  Mages who store too much information can
experience side effects like confusion as sensory cues cause a
flood of associated memories or an inability to remember without
using the Rote.  Combined with other senses and Mind effects, the
effect becomes even more useful.  For instance, the mage can flip
through a book, then Multi-Task and have one task carefully read
it from memory or 'rewind' her memory of a recent encounter to
look for details that her conscious mind overlooked.
     [To imprint a photographic memory, the mage rolls her Arete
with the number of successes indicating how long (on the normal
duration chart) the memory is retained with perfect clarity. 
During this duration the mage can look back just as if she were
still experiencing the memory even to the point of noticing
details for the first time.  After the duration is up, the memory
fades to normal levels of recall.]

     
Critical Hit   Entropy * *  Life or Matter *
     This is an enhanced version of Dim Mak that not only detects
weaknesses in a target but alters random factors to insure that
that such vulnerable areas are hit for maximum effect.  A
successful Critical Hit is dependent upon extremly transient
factors, so the Rote must always be performed at the moment of
the attack.  Because a 'crit' can be so wildly lucky, the actual
attack form used often has little effect.  In fact the Rote can
be used in a Direct form, a Critical Fumble, to cause the victim
to have an unfortunate 'accident.'
     [A Critical Hit does 2 HL per success instead of the normal
damage for the attack in question.  In some cases, such as
firearms or heavy melee weapons, this can actually end up being
less than the attack would normally have done - such are the
vagaries of Entropy.  This effect can never have a durration.  It
must be cast at the precise moment of the attack, requiring the
mage to split her dice pool or use Multi-Tasking. A Critical
Fumble is a Direct effect that does the same amount of damage. 
It is resisted by Willpower (dificulty 8, each success reduces
the Rote's sucesses by 1) and any remaining damage can be soaked.
     F/X - This effect will usually remain coincidental as long
as the damage done does not greatly excede the potential of the
attack/accident in question.


Extended Memory Manager  Mind *
     This Rote allows the mage to remember large amounts of data
with perfect clarity.  It can be used to preserve specific
memories or to retrieve largely forgotten ones.  Mages who store
too much information can experience side effects like confusion
as sensory cues cause a flood of associated memories or an
inability to remember without using the Rote.  Some mages find it
necessary to 'purge' old memories to make way for fresh data. 
Combined with other senses and Mind effects, the EMM becomes even
more useful.  For instance, the mage can flip through a book,
then Multi-Task and have one task carefully read it from memory
or 'rewind' her memory of a recent encounter to look for details
that her conscious mind overlooked.
     [To imprint a photographic memory, the mage rolls her Arete
with the number of successes indicating how long (on the normal
duration chart) the memory is retained with perfect clarity. 
During this duration the mage can look back just as if she were
still experiencing the memory even to the point of noticing
details for the first time.  After the duration is up, the memory
fades to normal levels of recall.  To retrieve a forgotten
experience, the mage rolls with successes read on the duration
chart to indicate how far back she can remember.  Clarity is high
but she cannot notice new details - only those which she noted at
some point but has forgotten.]
     F/X - Photographic and Eidetic mnemonic abilities are a
documented fact, making this Rote static magic.

Threat Assessment  Forces *  Entropy *  Life *
     The Virtual Adepts use this Rote to estimate the relative
danger posed by an opponent or other hazard.  Threat Assessment
does not reveal unknown dangers, it merely quantifies those the
mage is already aware of.  Thus, it is usually used in
conjunction with another sense such as normal sight, Inertial
Location or Composite Virtual Imaging.  Threat Assessment gives
the mage a good idea of the power of attacks the opponent can
throw and of the attackers speed and skill.  Use of this Rote can
make dodging attacks a little easier but does no otherwise
overtly effect combat.
     [The 'area' affected indicates the number of opponents
'Assessed.'  For instance, one success would give the mage
information about a single attacker in melee.  Regardless of the
number of successes, the mage can tell the approximate size of
the subject's attack and damage dice pools.  Assessed attacks can
be dodged at a -1 difficulty.  It has no effect on magical
attacks unless the mage is a disciple of all the spheres
involved.]
     F/X - The mage has heard (accurate) rumors about the
subject, is familiar with subject's style (Ah...You trained with
Master Wu.), has made a study of the types of weapons being
employed, etc.


Riker's Island  Mind *  Life *
     Many V-depts are classic 'computer nerds' with limited
social skills.  Sure, you can countermagick Thought Probes in
your sleep, but the wily Toreador can tell almost as much from
the way your eyelid's flutter when she asks you a question.  This
is what we call a non-trivial problem.  The answer is Riker's
Island, a Module that edits out unconscious reactions and body
language - even controls respiration and galvanic skin response. 
With it you have the ultimate poker face and can even beat lie
detectors.  Iteration X uses this Rote under the name 'Machine
Interface' and the Men In Black seem to have it hardwired into
their brains.
     [For the duration of the magick, all attempts to read the
mage using skills like Subterfuge as well as non-magical lie
detectors automatically fail.  Users of subterfuge will note that
the character is concealing something (even if he isn't) but
can't tell what.]
     F/X - No man is an island - except for this guy.  The mage
is a sociopath, completely cut off from normal human interaction,
or has been trained using bio-feedback or self hypnosis, or just
has the perfect poker face (like a certain 1st Officer in a
popular SF series).
