Newsgroups: alt.fan.kali.astarte.inanna,alt.pagan
From: msb@netcom.com (Mark S. Bilk)
Subject: The Sisterhood
Organization: Church of the Cosmic Orgone
Date: Thu, 23 Sep 1993 09:33:52 GMT

Found in alt.conspiracy:

Path: netcom.com!netcomsv!matrix!terry.mccombs
From: terry.mccombs@the-matrix.com (Terry Mccombs) 
Newsgroups: alt.conspiracy
Subject: The Sisterhood.
Message-ID: <2059.987.uupcb@the-matrix.com>
Date: 20 Sep 93 23:34:00 GMT
Distribution: world
Organization: The MATRIX - Birmingham, AL - 205-323-2016
Reply-To: terry.mccombs@the-matrix.com (Terry Mccombs) 

And here's that list as I used it to keep track of one group or
another, by the way, I know someone that claims of be a member of the
club below.

NAME: The Sisterhood, A.K.A. Sisterhood of the Trees, Sisterhood of
Shilds, Sisters of the Owl, Women of the White Cloak.

FOUNDED: What they say: Founded at the start of the "Patriarchy" or
that is to say the time when "men begain to steal the Power of
women, sometime between 10,000 B.C. and 4,000 B.C.

FOUNDED: Most likely: Who knows?, most people are not even suppose to
know that it exists.

SYMBOLS: The Cauldron, The Sheila-Na-Gig and other "yoni" figures,
a Sistrum and other types of rattles, a Labyrinth, the Labrys a
two-bladed ax, a seven pointed star, a Triangle.

PURPOSE: To protect the "secrets of womankind" which they say men
begain to steal long ago when the first of the patriarchys started
to take over and wipeout the matriarchys that they believe were
the rule world wide untill only a few thousand years ago, they say
that as the male-dominate societys grew and spred some of the more
powerfull women took what secrets they could that were not known
and formed small groups of women who would pretend to be obedient,
while really being the keepers of "the secrets."

FAMOUS MEMBERS: They claim that any number of old goddesses were really
former members who became legendary befour it became needfull to
"hid the secrets" and over the years their storys kept growing
untill they were called deities. Such as Isis, Astatre, White
Buffalo Woman, Myrrha, Shekina, Tiamat, Hecate ect... As for
later members, I at least was unable to find out anything, other
then the names of the two members in Birmningham that I was able
to find out about.

SPECIAL TEACHINGS: Gangs of them I'm sure, but they would not let ME
know any of them now would they?, but, I was able to wheedle out a
small hint of some of the "secrets." One was "Phasing", which is
sort of nuclear-powered female intuition, the Phasing person is
claimed to be able see past the veil of "ordinary reality" and
perceive forces, energys and "beings" at work behind the seens
so to speak. and so be able to tell the real reasons for some
happenings, and be a jump ahead on others, amoung other things.

HOW TO JOIN: You don't, they join you, or that is to say that when a
member who can "phases you out" and sees that you are worthy you
are a member, whether you want to be or not. They even claim that
there are members who have beem members for years, and don't even
know it, as they are working with the Sisterhood on only a Phase
level, and will only become full members when they are ready, why
there are even males who are let into the Sisterhood, (I guess you
have to have someone to make the coffee) but they are only let in
so far, away from the "deep secrets", whatever they are. One thing
about members is that they are to the outside world suppose to
appear compleatly ordinary and mundane, no weird ideas, no dress
that would draw a look, no wild or strange friends, like Mrs
Cleaver on Valium. They are not even to tell their closest
relatives if there is no "need to know."

ABOUT THE GROUP: They claim that they always work in fours, (though it
is possable for a group of four to be separated by thousands of
miles,or even for as many as two of them to be "unknowing members"
Each of the four has a specific function, which says what they
will and will not be taught, and what they will be allowed to do.
the four groups are:

1: Protectors. The warriors and first line of defense, also the ones
that check out new recruits.

2: Far-Seers. The virtuoso Phasers, the one's that are eye's and third
eye's for the group.

3: Healers. It stands to reason that they heal.

4: Shelter. The best I can understand it, they are sort of a cross
between Aunt Bea, and consular Troi. They see to the "well-being"
of the members, but not in the way that the Healer or the Protector
does.

Each of these groups is also linked to something that has to do
with their flavor of the Sisterhood, so that they could be known
as Oak, Thorn, Yew, and Pine if trees are their sign ect.


