From: sven@ll.mit.edu
Subject: Transcription of Knowledges (was DREAM)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller;,alt.games.whitewolf
Date: Thu, 24 Apr 1997 11:34:16 -0400
Organization: MIT NEROC (Northeast Radio Observatory Consortium)
Path: news.kth.se!nntp.uio.no!news-feed.inet.tele.dk!cpk-news-hub1.bbnplanet.com!cam-news-feed5.bbnplanet.com!news.bbnplanet.com!llnews.ll.mit.edu!usenet
Lines: 154
Message-ID: <335F7D78.16A@ll.mit.edu>
References: <335F321B.7DDB@boat.bt.com>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Mailer: Mozilla 3.0 (Win95; I)
Xref: news.kth.se alt.games.whitewolf:101250

Jack Rogers wrote:
 
> Dream, the background, allows the user to substitute the rating for
> another abilitie.
> 
> How about vampire lore ?
> or lupine lore, or wraith or changling or spirit or mummy or gypsie
> lore.
> 
> Couple this with a single dot in mind ( to help increase structured
> thought ) and a piece of paper and a pen, or perhaps more dangerously
> a computer and keyboard. or ( for the enthusiastic amongst you ) a
> virtual adept with dream 5 (today it's simulating vampire lore )
> corresponded to the web and think typing all his knowledge to do with
> vamps on to computer disk.

Seems like, sooner or later, all Mage players get this idea.  Use Dream,
or maybe a captured spirit, or wraith, or even a living person's mind
and memories, power up your own mind (using Mind o), and, writing/typing
as fast as you can (maybe using Time ooo for (vulgar) time dilation),
record the sum total of Knowledges X, Y, and Z from the source, to be
studied at a later time.  (We even had a thread about a Virtual Adept
doing this very thing (with Vampire Lore) a few months back, but it
seems to have died out.)

Let me echo Christopher Bibbs here in my opinion of Knowledges, and how
they could/should be transcribed:

 o        DABBLER.  This is the sort of information you get from maybe
          spending a day or two in a public library (or at a shooting
          range, fencing practice, etc., as appropriate to situation),
          looking up various references, trying out some of the basic
          principles of the thing, etc., etc., etc.  No real experience,
          just an 'I tried that once' sort of familiarity.

          Your acquired knowledge on the subject could probably fill a
          small (5-10 page) paper without leaving too much out.

 oo       STUDENT.  Different from 'Dabbler' in that you have put some
          further effort (_real_, focussed effort, the kind that goes
          beyond just a 'passing interest for a couple of days') into 
          the study and _practice_ of a thing.  You no longer just read
          the reference books, but look up the footnoted references and
          read them too.  You may do practice problems out of the book,
          or memorize certain important facts.  When mention is made of
          "Author X's view on the matter," there is at least some chance
          that you can recall that view without having to look it up
          again.  

          Your compiled knowledge on the subject is starting to get too
          broad to record all of it with sufficient clarity, but you
          could give a pretty good (20-40 page) report that explored
          several important subtopics in some detail.  A better, broad-
          based survey treatment of many topics (like, say, a 500-page
          introductory textbook) could also be written, provided you had
          two or three years to spend on its creation and presentation.
          
 ooo      GRADUATE.  Your interest has progressed past even a detailed
          few weeks/months of study, and is now of the intensity that
          takes years of research, and perhaps travel, to satisfy.  You
          have exhausted the majority of publicly-available resources
          (such as libraries, encyclopaedia, Internet), and have to 
          turn to original or specialized sources (archives, exhibits,
          foreign experts) to expand your knowledge base.

          The gulf between knowledge-stored-in-the-mind and knowledge-
          stored-on-paper starts to widen here;  the books, journals,
          lecture notes, exhibitions, and experimental findings you have
          absorbed alone would take up a small library in their own 
          right.  Most of these knowledgeable scholars publish at least
          one lengthy (50-100 pages) treatise on a specific aspect of
          their study (a 'thesis' or 'dissertation'), but it would take
          decades, if not a lifetime, to record and grasp it all.

 oooo     DOCTORATE.  This is what separates the men from the boys, so
          to speak -- the researcher who has acquired this much material
          about a subject has done so over many years (like a decade or
          more), during which time he/she has done little else but study
          this field of knowledge, and has explored a specific area (or
          two) in such depth that he/she is now literally a worldwide
          expert on that specific problem, and a master-level scholar
          with a detailed understanding of the subject as a whole.

          Scholars of this level of accomplishment frequently publish
          their findings (in short abstracts or lengthy dissertations),
          as do their lesser (Graduate-level) contemporaries.  At this
          level of education, however, the scholar has turned his/her
          attentions to multiple in-depth problems, or perhaps the
          extrapolation of ground-breaking theories based on other
          recent cutting-edge research -- so the work may be difficult
          for another even to understand, much less transcribe.  

          The work of a doctorate degreeholder could perhaps be
          summarized in several hundred-page volumes, each of which
          detailed one of his/her research problems, but that would
          really only be scratching the surface, and would contain none
          of his/her secondary research, incidental discoveries, or
          background knowledges.  Such complete transcription is nigh-
          impossible, although a staff of multiple dedicated
          stenographers (like Socrates' disciples, for instance) might
          pull it off over the course of decades.

 ooooo    MASTER.  Pretty much the uppermost limit of human achievement;
          this represents someone like Einstein, or Hawking, or Bruce
          Lee -- someone who was not only possessed of a natural gift
          (near-eidetic memory, for example, or super-fast reflexes and
           exceptional muscle tone) for this sort of thing, but who 
          devoted most of an entire lifetime towards its development,
          study, practice, and advancement.  

          The sum total of this kind of knowledge could not be recorded
          -- it took a lifetime to compile, after all, and might take
          another lifetime to even begin to understand, much less digest
          in its entirety.  To synthesize the discoveries of such genius
          you would literally have to recreate the mind which came up
          with such discoveries.

 oooooo   SUPERHUMAN.  Downright impossible to even imagine a single
          entity possessing this much encyclopaedic knowledge regarding
          _anything_... the closest we come on earth to achieving this
          level of knowledge is, say, the CIA or NSA or some government
          agency, with near-limitless resources (super-fast mainframes,
          gigabytes upon gigabytes of fast-access database material,
          teams of analysts working around the clock and sharing their
          findings, etc.), but that's many people and (superhuman)
          machines, not just one person.

Whew!  That was a mouthful.

So what am I saying?  I think that, using the Mind/Dream/Wraith/Umbrood
connection, as above, a Knowledge (perhaps even several Knowledges)
could be recorded for later use, up to level 1 or perhaps 2.  (Recording
a level 3 Knowledge would, I think, require more dedicated time than
most player characters would prefer to waste on such a trick.  Better to
research yourself in fits and starts -- that way you can pick up and
leave off when you want to.)

Another benefit to the above guidelines is that, rather than the all-
too-predictable "I'll buy one or two Abilities up to 5 with XP" minmaxer
syndrome, a more realistic across-the-board development is encouraged.

(i.e., buying several things up to 1 or 2 as you learn through life
 experience, maybe topping into a 3 or 4 as you focus on a few
 particular field(s) of study.  That's what I've done over the last
 twenty years or so, anyway.)

There was a system posted here before which emphasized stochastic
advancement -- in other words, a random distribution of (most of) your
experience points, so everything eventually promoted more or less
equally, with a few points left over for the player to allocate -- but I
prefer to police that sort of thing through role-playing.

Curious to know what y'all think.
                                                 -- S. Skoog
