X-Topic-No: 22
Date: Tue, 05 Jul 94 00:36:22 EDT
From: DynaYellow@aol.com
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Subject: Rote, rote, rote your boat.
Message-ID: <9407050036.tn344052@aol.com>

Some fun rotes I came up with because, well, I'm bored. Waiting for Jack's
Sons of Jupiter rewrite (did you know he came up with them?) has got me down.

More Power, Scotty!  (Matter 3, Forces 2 )
  Extremely popular among the Sons of Ether, this rote comes into play during
experiments in which more power is required than the ability of the source to
provide it. (did anyone understand that sentence?) This quite often allows
the SoE to retry a "failed" experiment. The effect of this rote is twofold:
it  increases the power provided from a source (i.e., forwards more
electricity from a city's power grid to mage's experiment (which could have
adverse effects on the rest of the city...)), and doubles the capacity of the
transferring source (the carrier cable) to handle it safely.
   This being primarily an SoE rote, there is, of course, a catch... an even
number of successes doubles (x2 for each pair of successes) both the effects
, as outlines above (the effect is exponential). However, an odd success will
increase only the amount of power provided. (example: Dr. Emerison needs more
power to reanimate the body of his third wife. The experiment is not going as
expected, so he does the natural thing and... adds more power! He casts the
rote, and gets 5 successes. The first pair of successes gives him x2 the
amount of power to the system and x2 the ability of his OmegaLifeATron to
handle it, the second pair gives him a total of x4/x4, but the odd last
success gives him only x8 the power, causing the city to go into a brown-out,
and the OmegaLifeATron to begin a core meltdown . It's fun!

Chicks Dig Me. (Life 2, Mind 2)
  Clears up acne, and convinces the target that concepts like "RAM" and
"K-bytes" are incredibly interesting. Go fig.

Proofread (?? Matter, ?? Mind)
  Created by an SoE who couldn't be bothered to use a word processor, this
theoretical rote was found among his notes and would translate, into correct
grammar, any writing. This rote is "theoretical" because the mage was
consumed by paradox  before completing his documentation on the subject. Only
a smoking pile of White Wolf rulebooks were left as a testament to his work
(and if I screwed up the spelling of anything in this post, am I in
trouble...)

A man with far to much time on his hands,
- -Bill
