Something Beneath


I was eating dinner with Marilyn when I felt something
move in my mind. How can I describe the dreadful feeling?
It was like laying sleepless at night, and being startled
by an unexpected bowel movement; a part of me that acted
on its own. Autonomous.  Unknown. Threatening. Marilyn
must have noticed my strange expression and asked how I
felt, but I just hid my emotions and said I was fine. 

The next time I was somewhat prepared, but it was much
worse.  The whole afternoon I had felt vaguely uneasy. The
office was stifling despite the air conditioning, and
something was steadily growing more wrong. I broke out in
a cold sweat of anticipation, and then I felt it again:
something *moved* or *shifted* in my mind outside my
control. Something alien, something that was not *me*. 
The entire thing lasted for just a few seconds, but it was
more than enough to send me screaming into the fortunately
rather empty hallways to escape whatever was happening. I
hid sobbing and shivering in a toilet stall for several
hours until I dared to leave the building. 

After that incident nothing was the same for me. I have
heard that some people who take acid continue to see
strange colours for the rest of their lives: they have
learned to see the hallucinations we all have but ignore.
In the same way I became conscious of that something was
going on, something that might have been going on for
years. At times I almost managed to convince myself that I
was merely overworked and needed to see a doctor, but then
I would feel the presence again of that other *thing*. It
was not always there, but I could feel its movements from
time to time. 

Several of my friends noticed that something was amiss,
and tried to cheer me up or help me, but I couldn't accept
it. They just lived on the surface, unaware of that
something was below. I took a sick leave anyway, hoping to
be able to do something. I looked up things in a book
about psychiatry, and read about paranoid schizophrenia. 
Bullshit. Whatever this was, it was *real*. There was
something in my head, and it was awakening. 

Then I found some pop-psychology book about Jung and his
archetypes. One picture etched itself into my mind: five
fingers rising through the surface of an ocean. The
caption explained that each human was like one of the
fingers, apparently disjointed from all the others but
under the surface, in the collective subconscious, parts
of a single hand. But what else could be down there in the
collective subconscious? The same evening I turned on the
television in the hope of distracting myself, and was
confronted with the opening scenes of "Jaws": a huge shark
is rising faster and faster through dark depths towards an
unsuspecting swimmer on the bright surface, ready to
devour her. Jung called this kind of events
synchronicities. 

I am now convinced that it is getting more powerful. I can
feel how it moves more and more, getting closer and closer
to the surface. I don't know what it is or what it wants,
but I know one thing: when it surfaces it will be bad.
Very bad. 

A few of my friends tried to see me today, but I didn't
let them in.  Perhaps I was afraid it would awaken in them
too, perhaps I was merely afraid they would try to help
me. But I know what to do now, despite its approach.
Somehow I just know what is to be done, as if I have
always known. I have placed the tarot deck Marilyn gave me
in a circle on the floor; Jung said they reflected the
archetypes, and I hope they can at least confuse it long
enough for me. I have also sharpened a kitchen knife. 

The thing beneath is rising faster now, ascending like a
shark against the tiny human body above. But I have a
surprise for it. We are sculpting something together, I
and the agony. Something no one ever expected. The pain is
awful. But it is mine. 





