Date: Thu, 07 Sep 1995 17:05:42 -0400
To: ah4186@qmw.ac.uk
From: "Arthur-Trevor D.M. Lasher" <atlasher@ix.netcom.com> 
(by way of "Arthur-Trevor D.M. Lasher" <atlasher@ix.netcom.com>)
Subject: The Last Trek v2.0, part I


Virtual 1-2-3I(U)-2-E-3S-E-1-2-STH1 (Southron Republic)

Note:  A similar idea was presented by S.M. Stirling in
his "Draka" series of books.  Mine, I believe, has a much
'happier' ending and the details of the society--indeed, how
it started--are quite different.  Don't think of it as
derivative, but as a parallel proposal.

Prelude: August 15, 1870  New Orleans...in flames...

General Robert E. Lee, late of the Army of Northern Virginia,
wept silently as the CSS Charleston floated out to sea.  Beyond
the horizon, brite orange flames licked at the French Quarter
as Maj.-Gen. Butler took his revenge out on the poor souls still
left in the city.  Acrid smoke wafted up into the air for as far
as the eye could see and at high-noon, the sun was obscured and
the water as black as pitch...

He'd held out as long as he could, knowing full well that all
was lost, that there would be no more reinforcements, that
a denouement to guerrilla warfare would be met with even more
brutality than he'd witnessed thus far.  The last boat had left
the harbour and the HMS Defiant was within sight of Lee's
blurred vision, there to escort the Charleston to her final
destination, the port of Cape Town at the tip of Africa.  A fitting
end, he thought darkly.  It's a whole continent's revenge against
us, against the same policies which brought her sons and daughters
to this land laid low now by the conqueror's sword.  We are
being swallowed by Destiny...

                            *

A Short and Secret History of the Southron Republic

by Andrew de Wit
Nephilim
10th Generation from Lilith

Archivist-Historian Nth Class,
Imperial Academy of History
Cape Town, Southron Republic

"Who would create a future for himself,
may not lose sight of the past."

Pres. Paul Kruger, the last president
of the Transvaal Republic

5 July, 1867:  The Sacking of Richmond.  After six long
and bitter years of warfare, the Union Army, under U.S.
Grant, finally crashes through the valiant defenders of
the Confederate capital.  Enraged at the defiance of
the Southern troops, he orders the city put to torch...
but not before the victorious Northern forces loot and
plunder it.

Thus begins the collapse of Southron resistance after
a closely fought and barely lost war.  After the loss of
Pres. Lincoln to Gen. McClellan in the 1864 election, many
had expected the North to sue for peace.  In fact, Pres.
McClellan's first speech seemed to indicate that he could
live with a continent divided between the two nations.
That thought, however, was stillborne as an assassin's
bullet laid low McClellan on 3 March, 1865.  The perpetrator,
the Copperhead Democrat and actor John Wilkes Boothe,
immediately caused an electrifying sensation across the
mourning nation.  The North offered peace and the South
(or so it was thought; Boothe's ties to Richmond were
tenuous at best) gave them war.

And so, Acting President Douglas gave the people what they
sought for:  a jihad.  Total war.

City after Southron city fell, all burned to the ground
and looted, the vengeful Yankees seeking to seemingly
drive the Southerners into the sea.  Millions were displaced
and untold atrocities occurred.  By late '69, the Confederate
Army was relegated to a swiftly tightening corridor of
land from Galviston to New Orleans.

The world powers, particularly the British, who'd passed the
opportunity to recognise the Confederacy when Richmond seemed
to be winning, were horrified.  The Royal Navy was ordered
to help evacuate any Southern family that could reach portcall.
Officials--Confederate and British--scrambled to organise this
unprecendented evacuation.  With the Yanks apparently desiring
nothing to do with their erstwhile countrymen, something needed
to be done to save what could be saved of Dixie's children.

3 November, 1870:  The British Parliament, mirroring the
public outrage (fueled by at least two Clans; the Ventrue
and the Lasombra [the latter in hiding]) at the Union's
Carthage-like conquest of the Confederacy, passes the
"Confederate Refuge and Settlement Act" at the urging of
Prime Minister Gladstone and opposition leader Disraeli.

Rumour is that Disraeli suggested the Act to Gladstone
after reading in the Times of the Siege of New Orleans,
the final bastion of the South, in which nearly seventeen
thousand men, women and children were alleged to've been
slain.  The reality is only slightly divergent.  Viscount
Manning, Lasombra Archbishop of Greater London, successfully
implanted the suggestion into Benjamin's mind, where it
found fertile ground and flowered into something quite
larger than even Manning anticipated.

13 January, 1872:  The "Cape Colony Self-Government Act of
1872" passes the British Parliament, amending a similar
law passed barely a year earlier.  This act expands the
authority of the Cape Colony Parliament and further loosens
the ties between London and Cape Town, bestowing Dominion
status on the region on par with Canada.

Once more, the hand of Archbishop Manning is behind this
act, particularly amongst the House of Lords, where he maintains
at least two in Ghouldom.  Manning's ultimate goal, the
unification of all British colonies in southern Africa for
use as a base of operations for the Sabbat, begins to gel.

By this juncture, the refugee crisis spawned by the influx
of nearly 17 million settlers over the course of the last
few years is beginning to abate as the Cape Colony and Natal
economies take off.

14 April, 1895:  Bowing to the inevitable--and after a series
of blistering raids out of the Cape Colony and Natal which
devastated the Boers' major settlements--the Orange Free
State and the Transvaal agree to a federation with the British
colonies.  At 12:00 on that day, Cecil John Rhodes becomes
the first Prime Minister of the Southron Republic.

It wasn't as easy as it sounded.  The Afrikaaners were by
no means militarily defeated, even though the British Army
and the colonial militias held most of their cities in thrall.
Guerrilla warfare was an option, but Pres. Krueger of the
Transvaal recognised that the overwhelming demographic superiority
of the Cape and Natal would inevitably overwhelm the Boers
shortly.  They extracted a price, however.  Afrikaans was
elevated to official language status on par with English in
the federation and the Witwatersraand (an area of vast gold
and diamond reserves) was allocated to the Boers for exploitation,
something which Rhodes had long coveted for his own use.

Behind the scenes, Archbishop Manning had already set in
motion wheels that would lead to eventual Southron domination
of the subcontinent and, eventually, the entirety of Africa.
He pressed for subsidised immigration packages to the Southron
Republic, Dominating a slew of MPs from the Unionist (later,
Tory) slate, angering not a few Ventrue and Toreador, who
considered Parliament *their* fiefdom.  Unable to openly
act against the Sabbat mastermind and unaware of the sect's
major areas of control, the Camarilla conspirators--already
engaged in fratricidal warfare amongst themselves--were
rendered impotent.

Additionally, all tariffs between Britain and the Republic
were eventually phased out or lessened, thus allowing an
even greater expansion of the Southron economy over the next
decade.  In Britain, Cape wines became all the rage, dominating
the market.

2 April, 1903-13 March, 1905:  Matabele War.  The Matabele
tribe in Southern Rhodesia, allied with several other minor
tribes on both sides of the border of the Southron Republic,
rebels against British rule, very nearly causing the collapse
of the settler regime in Salisbury.  After watching--with
increasing horror--the rebellion for more than a year, Cape Town
(up until then only interested in keeping the Venda and the
Gazankulu tribes pacified in the northern Transvaal area)
orders in the untested Praetorian Guard, the nascent army
of the Southron Republic.  A series of bush wars ensues,
and the rebellion collapses.  Cape Town is then left
with a great amount of influence over Salisbury.

Manning watched with interest the sequence of events which
led to the war in Matabeleland.  There was indirect evidence
of werebeast activity and not a few instances of outright
Camarilla involvement (particularly when the Guard entered
the conflict).  In the end, however, everything went according
to plan and this conflict set the stage for the coming
referendum.

19 November, 1905:  A greatful Southern Rhodesia, still
reeling from the aftereffects of the Matabele War, votes
in a referendum to join the Southron Republic, becoming
the nation's fifth province.

The first Sabbat pack enters Salisbury on this nite, originally
hailing from the northern Transvaal.  

Archbishop Manning prepares to evacuate most of the Sabbat
presence from southern England and Wales, leaving only the
scattered country packs of Scotland and northern England
to make a mess of the already convoluted Kindred politics
in the nation.  His plan is to set up Sabbat strongholds,
called 'Garrison Houses' in the major cities of the Southron
Republic, from which the sect could extend their control
over the region.  Houses in Cape Town, Pretoria, Bloemfontein,
Durban, New Richmond, New Atlanta and Salisbury are set up.

4 August, 1914:  The Great War begins in Europe.  After nearly
twenty years as a self-governing state, the Southron Republic
is forced to make a difficult choice.  As a member of the British
Empire, Cape Town would nominally have been expected to join
in the hostilities.  However, a sizeable portion of both the
Confederate and Afrikaaner population were leery of getting
too deeply involved in 'their (the Europeans') war'.  A delicate
three-way ethnic balance ensued.  With the population, as a whole,
numerically in favour of the Confederates, the mining
economy dominated by the Afrikaaners, and the bureaucracy by
those of British descent, no mistakes could be made that wouldn't
risk intercommunal strife.  Prime Minister Anderson, a Confederate
himself and the first to hold such a post, made the most important
decision in the nation's history.

He declared the Republic's policy to be that of 'self-defense at
the expense of all' and set about prosecuting his *own* war, *his*
way, independent of London or the Allies.  Laying claim to Rhodes'
old dream of a community from 'Cape to Cairo', Anderson presented
a programme to Parliament outlined a vast and breathtaking vision.
The Republic would immediately annex the British protectorates of
Bechuanaland, Basutoland and Swaziland as areas 'integral to the
stability of the Southron nation'.  Following this up would be
the London-requested land invasion of German South-West Afrika...
with an added goal of seizing Portugeuse Angola and Mozambique.
At the conclusion of hostilities, Cape Town would offer provincial-
hood to Nyassaland and Northern Rhodesia (though with the strong
implication that there really wasn't all that much of a choice
in the matter).  Eventually, the Republic would buy, barter or
seize any and all land she possibly could, making her way through
the Belgian Congo, German East Afrika, and British Kenia.

Behind the scenes, the Sabbat were fast at work, mustering up
the needed industrial output to sustain such grandiose visions,
softening the local populace to the measures and dealing with the
increasing interference from Camarilla operatives, particularly
in Northern Rhodesia and British Kenia.

15 December, 1914-22 October, 1922:  The Great Northern War.
Acting upon Anderson's vision and spurred on by an increasingly
confidant and growing number of Sabbat operatives, the Southron
Republic marches to war.  The Praetorian Guard, long the fiefdom
of the Confederate majority, finally gets a chance to stretch
her wings as they conquer one region after another in a lightning
set of raids across vast swathes of land from the Orange river
to the Sahel in the southern reaches of north Africa.  Colony
after colony collapses as one of the largest armies the world
has ever seen--some four million strong--drives inexorably north-
ward.

Behind the lines, preternatural warfare ensues.  Caught almost
completely unawares by the ferocious nature of the fighting,
the Camarilla--weak in Africa as it is and fighting against
the werebeasts and Mages in most areas--swings into action to
fight a desperate rear-guard battle to prevent the entirely
of the continent from coming under the dark sway of the Sabbat.

The first meetings between the Sabbat and the Technocracy are
held in Salisbury on a combined effort to crush both the
Camarilla and the Tradition Mages which plague both conspirators.
After years of painful deliberation--and much mistrust--the
Pact of Salisbury is signed and sealed on January 1, 1920,
sealing the fate of many a valiant Kindred and Mage.

Technocratic Conventions will openly ally themselves with
Sabbat Clans in support of joint operations to flush our and
eliminate their competitors inside Southron-held territory.
The Sabbat would allow the Progenitors tissue and blood
samples in an effort to duplicate the success of Clan Tremere
in creating a vampiric mage.  New World Order and Virtual
Adepts [note:  the Pact stemmed the secession of the Adepts
to the Traditions] were allowed to begin work on a massive
bureaucracy to run the empire Cape Town was in the process
of creating, one which would allow quick and efficient
communication across vast distances, thus allowing greater
control over far-flung regions.

In the end, though, it was Manning who'd achieved the most
of what he wanted:  the virtual elimination of Camarilla
influence from the continent.  Africa was now a base of
operations from which to accomplish two things:  make
further forays into Camarilla-held land and to begin the
search and eventual destruction of the Antediluvians before
the latter arose from Torpor.

19 May, 1922:  After careful consultation between Convention
and Clan leaders alike, the Virtual Adepts are allowed to release
a variation of Charles Babbages' Difference Engine to the Sleeper
public.  Using scientists at the University of the Witwatersraand
at New Richmond under the ghouldom of a noted Tzimisce in the
region, the Adepts begin the 'Difference Revolution', an era
where computational machines--exclusively made in the Republic--
will begin to ease the burden off the Sleepers (thus making
them more susceptible to further influences of the Conventions
and their allied Clans in the Sabbat).  Day-to-day bureaucracies
will grow ever larger and more powerful, bringing citizens
closer together and maintaining a greater amount of control
over the local paradigm.

22 May, 1923:  Years of bitter and protracted diplomatic infighting
between London and Cape Town lead to a final break.  Parliament
passes the "Act of Separation" by an overwhelming majority, officially
ending ties with the British Empire.

This Act sets the stage for the final push to secure the northern
reaches of Africa, under British and French suzerainty.  Behind
the scenes, the NWO and the Syndicate were undermining the local
colonial administrations by undercutting the local hemp and
opium markets with cheaply made (synthesised in Progenitor vats)
Southron products, causing a region-wide epidemic of drug use
and the concurrent crime and poverty problems normally associated
with said habits.  Additionally, select members of the colonial
apparatus were replaced by Progenitor clones or ghouled by the
Sabbat (mostly Tzimisce, though a few Lasombra were allowed to
ensnarl select officials) in preparation for the final assault.

4 February, 1923:  The Conventions task the Sabbat to hunt down
and eliminate the renegade Sons of Ether, a Convention of Mages
which had rebelled against the Technocracy and sought refuge
within the Traditions.  Eager to solidify the union of the two
allies, the Sabbat pass the tasking down to the Sicariot for
execution, beginning the decades-long and semi-successful "Mad Hunt"
as the Sabbat's subsect of assassins swing into action.

14 March, 1923-23 May, 1923:  The Maghreb War.  Sufficiently
rendered ungovernable by the undermining of the preternatural
forces to the south of them, the north African colonial regimes
in Egypt, Tripolitania, Algeria, Tunisia and Morocco sustain
a massive frontal assault by Southron troops as the final push
to fulfill the late PM Anderson's vision is executed with cold
efficiency.  Ignoring threats of intervention from London,
Rome, Paris and Madrid, Cape Town quickly seizes the colonies
and begins mop-up operations in the hinterlands of the Sahara,
the Atlas mountains and the Upper Nile area.

Cape Town quickly mollifies the frightened colonial populace
by offering expanded infrastructure and economic opportunities
in addition to a resumption of law and order (tacitly omitting
the fact the current crime wave was of their manufacturing).
Behind the scenes, key leaders in the expatriot communities
are Dominated, cloned or otherwise enthralled to mobilise
the population in support of the new regime.  In the Berber
and Arab-populated hinterlands, efforts are made to lure them
into more urbanised (and easily controlled) settings as the
campaign against the last remaining Tradition mages and
werebeasts comes to a satisfactory close.

'The Golden Twenties'

With Africa under the Sabbat and the Conventions' co-dominium,
the Southron Republic became a hotbed of economic, technological
and social ferment as both forces found the area the perfect
setting for all sorts of experiments on a grand scale.  An
area of massive proportions, hermetically sealed off from
preternatural influence outside of theirs', the allies allowed
themselves free reign.

Among the more noteworthy advances of the era, allowed to
leak out from Convention laboratries:

--artificial rubber
--advanced antibiotics (needed against the subtropical
environments the Southron settlers met whilst consolidating
their hold on the central girth of the continent).
--television (in addition to advanced monitoring techniques
through two-way televised transmissions...)
--fuel efficient internal combustion engines (lessening the
need for petroleum in the relatively oil-poor central and
southern zones of the continent as exploration/exploitation
was redirected in the northern reaches)

and so on...

October 4, 1929:  The Great Depression begins.  However,
effects in the Southron Republic were almost minimal as
the nation had little contact with the outside world save
in export trading (and no currency or stock trading ties
with anyone).  A surreal gloom descended over the rest
of the planet whilst Africa bloomed as planters, industrialists,
engineers and settlers spread out to the farthest reaches of
their new lands, building a magnificent infrastructure...
all the while directed by the silent puppet masters of
the Technocracy and the Sabbat.

New immigrants, refugees from the Depression, pour into
the Republic from all nations, though most of them hail
from Britain, Germany and, ironically, America.  This
wave of new blood only increases the viability of the
new borders and pushes the economy to feverish heights.
During this era, the Southron Republic becomes the world's
third largest economy, barely outstripped by the US and
the UK.

October 11, 1930:  After years of failure and disappointing
results, the Progenitors and the Tzimisce finally end up
creating a unique species of Revenant:  the Manichaen.
Springing from earlier attempts at duplicating Clan Tremere's
feat, the Manichaen is a compromise between the full
immortality of the Kindred and the need to keep the Awakened
Avatar untainted to use True Magicks.  The end result would
be the final staple in the Pact, a true union between
the two forces which had, heretofore, kept much of their
autonomy in spite of their joint efforts.

[For more on the Manichaens, see the entry on them below]

1 September, 1939-22 July, 1944:  The Second Great War.
Spurred on in part by the activities of the German Camarilla
factions, Europe is, once more, engulfed in flames as
the Nazis stream across borders in a mad quest for a 1,000
year Reich.  The West uniformally lines up to fight the
barbaric regime in Berlin...but ends up getting much more
than what they bargained for.

Convinced that the time for eliminating his enemies is now,
Gustav, the Prince of Berlin, begins overt preternatural
efforts to aid the German cause, in blatant violation of
the Masquerade.  He Embraces Hitler and Himmler and adds
the full weight of his influence to the ongoing conflict.
The world, already horrified at the lightning-fast advances,
is even further terrified as stories leak out of high ranking
Soviet officers on the Eastern Front being found totally
drained of blood.  Rumours run rampant and even the more
incredulous of papers begin to print the rising toll of
active vampires--or beings *believed* to be vampires--in
the war.

The efforts are not in vain.  Leningrad falls in late December
of '42 and Moscow soon follows a month later, in January
of '43.

Astonished at the apparent meltdown of authority amongst
the Camarilla in Europe--and knowing a good opportunity
when they see it--the Cabal (as the Technocracy and Sabbat
have come to call themselves when referring to their united
efforts) swings into action, moving the Southron Republic
into position to wrest Europe from the Camarilla and out of
Hitler and Gustav's mad dreams.  The Republic officially
declares war on 1 March, 1943.

Eager to keep Washington out of the war in Europe, the
Cabal ups the ante in the Pacific, secretly assisting Berlin's
ally, Japan, during key naval battles.  They secure themselves
fully when Tokyo successfully lands on Australia on December
11, 1943, thus tying up America for the remainder of the
war, leaving Europe to the Republic.

With all preternatural factions at each other's throats in
Europe, Lupines being the latest to covertly enter the fray,
the Cabal play their trump card as Southron armies stream
across the Mediterranean towards Italy, the Balkans and
the south of France.  From dark and secret complexes deep
within the veld, Progenitor and Tzimisce technicians begin
the mass production of a myriad of ghoul and recombinant varients
for integration into the Praetorian Guard.  The secrets of
recombinant DNA are publically announced to the Sleepers within
the Southron Republic, ostensibly stemming from gov't-sponsored
research at the University of the Witwatersraand at New Richmond.
Cape Town embraces the 'new' technology and the engines of
war are given a deadly weapon with which to combat the menace
of the Reich.

The entire political and social landscape of the Republic
changes almost overnite as various companies rush to cash in
on the limitless applications for the technologies stemming
from the announcement. All of this carefully planned to mask
the activities of both the Cabal in matters internal and the
misadventures of Gustav to the north, which threaten to bring
down the wrath of humanity on the once securely covert pre-
ternatural denizens of the planet.  With that cover in
place and the whole world now complacent with the notion
that the 'vampires' in earlier reports were simply the
Nazi's own covert recombinant experiments, the Cabal has
very nearly secured for themselves total control over the
planet's paradigm.  Tradition Mages, world-wide, are finding
it harder not to court Paradox as the repercussions of
'fake supernatural' drive the *real* supernatural even
*further* from the Sleepers' dulled minds.

Finally, after brutal town-to-town fighting and untold
devastation, the Second Great War is brought to an abrupt
end with the surprise assassination of Adolf Hitler and
Gustav Breidenstein...allegedly by the latter's own Childe,
Wilhelm Waldburg...on 20 July, 1944 in a massive explosion
which obliterated both completely.  Two days later, the
remnants of the Reich, with Gustav's other Nazi-Childe,
Heinrich Himmler, in command, sued for peace against the
odd-couple coalition of the British, Free French, Free Soviet
and Southron forces.  Two months following that, the war
officially ended with Germany forcibly returning much
of her gains (though not all; Poland, as a state, was
returned only in a truncated form and Austria and the
Sudetenland remained with Berlin).

The settlement also set in motion the interlinking and
massive set of anti-partisan and nationalist conflicts
which sprang up with the Nazi's swift defeat of the
Soviet gov't in Moscow.  Called collectively the Bush
Wars by Cape Town and, later, much of the world, they
spread across most of the eastern portions of Eurasia,
from the constant Polish-German shellings across the
new and unstable border, the Transylvania War between
Rumania and Hungary over the aforementioned region,
the implosion of the Balkans following the collapse
of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and the myriad of
nationalist and partisan wars over the carcass of
the dying and decaying Soviet Union.

THE POST-WAR WORLD...

Since the Settlement, ending the Second Great War,
three Great Powers have vied for control over the hearts
and minds of humanity, though not all with equal success.

The Southron Republic is, arguably, the strongest of
the three.  She sits atop her primary powerbase on
the continent of Africa, a paragon of high tech and
advanced bioengineering.  Her armies are staffed by a
mixture of Sleepers and vat-grown Biorgs (the official
term for the creations of the Progenitor/Tzimisce labs),
her bureaucracy and political classes are more and
more represented by ghouls and Manichaens and the
everyday Southron has a chance at limited immortality...

Cape Town's reach extends over much of the Eastern
Hemisphere.  Her primary satrap is the vampire Himmler's
Germany, still going strong after decades of power.
In Berlin, the first Manichaens appeared in the late
'70s and it probably won't be long before the Land
of the Eternal Fuehrer sees a societal transformation
along the Southron model.

Other satraps include Croatia, Rumania, Turkey, and
the largest successor-state to rise out of Stalin's
dystopia, the Grande Duchy of Rus.

The United Kingdom still actively contests the Republic's
European dominance and stands as the primary counter-
weight to Southron (and Cabal) domination of world affairs.
Close alliances with France, the Benelux nations and
Scandanavia have knit western Europe closer as they eschew
much of what the Republic stands for.  Though appreciative
of the technological advances, much of the UK's sphere
has little use for the bioengineering sciences and, indeed,
it is at that point where the two nations disagree most
vehemently on.  The Bioecofundamentalist Movement began in
Manchester when a group of so-called 'Beefers' (their
name for themselves) rioted against engineered produce
being shipped in from Liverpool in the late '60s.  Since
then, the Beefers have made major political gains and
their party, which merged with Labour in '72, has been
in charge of the British gov't for nearly twenty years.

Other UK satraps include the remaining nations of her
truncated Empire, the largest of which are the hypermassive
Raj of British India, Canada and Australia.

The United States stands alone from the fray, an introverted
and isolationist nation too large to be ignored and too
dangerous and unpredictable to court by either the British
or the Southrons.  She's been something of an enigma since
the end of the hard-fought Pacific War (the Asian phase
of the Second Great War).  After nearly a decade of fighting,
from 1941-1950, the US finally defeated the Japanese and
sought to make sure they never expanded their aggressive
energies elsewhere.  And so, for forty-five years, America
has been digesting the Japanese home islands, annexing them
officially after much heated political debate in '61.  The
ensuing merger of the two cultures created a synergy not
seen since the cultural diffusion founded upon the ashes
of the Confederacy and the Afrikaaner republics.

America's vast reach stretches across the Pacific, from
the State of Chosun, adjacent to China and the Empire
of Siberia, down to her satraps in the south Pacific:
the American East Indies and New Zealand.

Curiously, the US has managed to eschew both the high
tech and the bioengineering in the traditional, Southron-
defined senses, and instead has become something
of an anomaly.  Her technologies are incompatible with
Cape Town's.  Television formats are encrypted and maser-
directed beam communications make it difficult to keep
tabs on her advancements.

Bioengineering, too, has advanced along nearly totally
different paths from that which the Cabal has directed
Cape Town to pursue.  An emphasis on intercompatibility
with the environment is valued, a Zen-derived philosophy
of advancement.  Industrial technologies are being
phased out in favour of a bizarre nuclear recombinant
tech called 'Splicing', a process which basically is
controlled fusion and fission, allowing for molecular
rearrangement on a vast scale.  Though horrifically
expensive, the political and societal will is there
to keep it going, making the choices necessary to
keep America apart from the rest of the world and
unique.


BEHIND THE SCENES...

The Cabal, for all its seemingly monolithic uniformity,
is actually in the process of fission.  As the Technocracy
and the Sabbat continue to blur the line between the
two, some Conventions began to feel that the Pact was
perhaps not a good idea for them.

Such feelings began shortly after the end of the Second
Great War and are now on the verge of boiling over.  The
Virtual Adepts and a portion of the Void Engineers, in
particular, felt the union of the Technocracy with the
Sabbat had harmed the quest for Ascension in general
as the former's goals of a non-supernatural paradigm
were being compromised by the presence of the supernatural
at their dinner table, in the office and even their beds.

So began the Schism as the Adepts, those Engineers who
agreed with them, a few Iteration Xers and a handful of
Syndicates joined forces with the few remaining Sons of
Ether left after the Sicarii hunted most of their kind
down.  They based their operations out of America and
set about defining themselves--and American culture
and society--in opposition to the corrupted paradigm
of the Cabal, with their Biorg servants, Manichaen
politicians and necrotek magicks.

Since then they've slowly built up their dominance
in society, waiting for the moment when they could
openly challenge the Cabal.  For now, though, they are
far too weak.

                        *

For the Cabal's part, they allowed the Schism to
occur bloodlessly, hoping to divest themselves of
elements not useful to the whole of their operations.

The Cabal is aware of the Schismatics' attempts at
redefining the dominant pardigm as enforced by the
authorities at Cape Town, but they know that the
rebels have nearly no chance of succeeding.  The best
they can hope for is enforcing a local paradigm shift,
one which will fall apart outside the borders of
the Americans' reach.  Even then, that works in the
Cabal's favour for all the Schismatics are doing is
tweaking the already accepted paradigm, not wholly
replacing it.  Relativity still rules and Thermodynamics
is king.  Nothing will change that.

Internally, the Cabal is further blurring the line
between the preternatural and the Sleeper worlds.
Southron (and, soon, German) citizens are being
offerred engineered bodies and the select elite
are cashing in on Manichaen necrotek, girding them-
selves in the limited immortality of the serial
cloned Revenant.

                       *

The Camarilla, at least in Eurasia and Africa, are
all but extinct.  Some fiesty and decidedly mad Kindred
can still be found in more out of the way areas, like
the steppes of the Siberian Empire or the isle of
Madagascar, but they are few and far far inbetween.

Even in North America, there is the looming danger of
the Sabbat, though with the Schism and the importation
of the Schismatics, that threat is a lot less than it
was a few decades earlier.  Now the areas encompassing
the United States, Canada and much of Central America
are free of Sabbat influence.

South America, however, is another story.  Since the
'50s, they've fallen under the sway of the Republic
and are now prime breeding grounds for the Cabal.
The real adventure for any Camarilla sectmemeber in
search of it is to be found on the streets of Rio or
Sao Paulo, where Southron megacorps are tightening
their grip on the South American economies and tying
them ever-closer to Cape Town's orbit.

                     *

Extinction looms for the world's Lupines and other
werebeasts not in league with the Cabal.  Africa
is, for all intents and purposes, denuded of lycanthropes,
save for the Bastet, who surrendured en masse during
the Maghreb War in return for eternal service to
Cape Town's whims.  It is from that stock, in fact,
that the Progenitors and Tzimisce have created the
Satrina Biorg, the pleasure model.

In Europe, the situation isn't much better, though
vaster distances and lesser direct political control
equates to a much larger lycanthropic population.
Still, Cabal-orientated industries and governments
are running a campaign to flush the shapeshifters
out into the open, using whatever means they can
to do it.  In particular, the Bratovitch ghouls
are being put to use, hunting down their ancient
adversaries.

North America, however, seems to've become a haven
for displaced lycanthropes from all continents.  Even
the few Bastet who managed to escape capitulation
are welcomed with open arms here.  As the Schismatics
begin their 'deconstruction' of industrial-age
technology, the lycanthropes' numbers and, more impor-
tantly, their ideology, has increased.  If there
be a last stand for the werebeasts' line, it will
be here.

Nothing much can be said for South America except
that, for the lycanthropes, it is a lost cause.
As the Cabal continue to increase their influence
on the local governments, more and more of them
emigrate to North America...or die in the attempt.
It is rumoured that the Sicarii or at least a portion
of them are being prepared for an all-out assault
on the few remaining werebeast fortresses deep in
the Amazon.

FACTS AND FIGURES

SOUTHRON REPUBLIC

POPULATION:  305,784,988 (1993 census)
URBAN:  47%
ETHNIC GROUPS:  Caucasian--47%
                  Confederates--52%
                  Afrikaaners--26%
                  British--10%
                  Arab or Berber--9%
                  Other (primarily German)--3%
                Blacks--37%
                  Bantu (primarily Zulu and Xhosa)--43%
                  Hausa-Fulani/Yoruba/Ibo-western Africa--40%
                  Oromo/Amhara/Tigrean-eastern Africa--12%
                  Other--5%
                Asians--9%
                  Indians (incuding Cape Malays)--78%
                  Chinese--11%
                  Japanese--8%
                  Other (predominantly Chosunese [Korean])--2%
                Mixed Race--7%
                  Cape Coloureds--47%
                  Alexandrians--22%
                  Maghrebs--21%
                  Others--20%
LANGUAGES:  English and Afrikaans (both official)
RELIGIONS:  Episcopalianism, Dutch Reformed Church, Catholic,
            Islam, indigineous beliefs

CAPITAL:  Cape Town (1,845,878)
PRINCIPLE CITIES:  Johannesburg (4,875,893), Alexandria (4,788,988),
                   New Richmond (3,749,821), New Atlanta (3,700,877),
                   Leesburg (3,659,812), Cairo (3,608,783),
                   Algiers (2,984,783), Carthage (2,909,785),
                   Leptis Magna (2,809,844), Nova Roma (2,008,877),
                   Davisville (1,812,946), Durban (1,812,788),
                   Pretoria (1,809,788), Salisbury (1,803,844)
GOVERNMENT:  Strong democratic confederation (similar to Canada)
HEAD OF STATE:  Praetor Pretorius de Nant, in office 1 Oct., 1990
HEAD OF GOV'T:  Prime Minister Andrew Davis II, in office 4 Nov.,
                1994
MAJOR POLITICAL PARTIES:  Ruling:  National Party (the Nats)
                                   Patriot Party
                                   Movement for Democratic Action
                          Opposition:  Labour Party
                                       National Front
                                       Liberal Party
                                       African National Union

MONETARY UNIT:  Solidus
PER CAPITA INCOME:  $12,349
NATURAL INCREASE:  1.2% annual
LITERACY:  97%


NEW REVENANT FAMILIES

MANICHAENS

Nicknames:  Serials

Description:  Fully processed Serials are identical to
the original template, right down to the finger and retinal
prints.  In non-processed form, however, a Manichaen is
a blank slate with nondescript, sexless features.

Manichaens are specially-designed Revenants, modified
by Progenitor magicks and Tzimisce Vicissitude.  They
are born tabula rasa, with no personality engrams or
even much dura matter, outside of a residual medulla
and brain stem.  An individual's brain is surgically
placed inside the Manichaen body and molded to a perfect
fit and it is only then that the Revenant's true nature
comes to fore.

The transplantee's brain triggers the Revenant body,
causing its latent Vicissitude to shape itself to conform
to the brain's self-image.  This image may not necessarily
be identical to the original template.  Often it is an
idealised image.  The finger and retinal prints, however,
remain the same as the template.  The Manichaen now is
a stirling near-carbon copy of the transplantee's original
body...with a twist.  For now the template can live to several
centuries of age and benefits from the body's low-level
Vicissitude (limited to Flesh and Bonecrafting of him or
herself, only).

Mages who transplant their brains into Manichaen bodies
find an additional benefit:  the full use of True Magicks.
Being alive and not undead, the Manichaen's Avatar is
identical (or so they think...) to the template's.  Whether
this is accomplished through transplantation or some kind
of 'soul cloning' is unknown, though it is certain that
the Tzimisce hold the key to this process and it is the
culmination of several centuries of experimentation along
the Path of Death and the Soul.

Appearance:  Whatever the template's original appearance
was, though many Manichaens tend to have idealised features.
All Manichaens, however, are identifiable by a single gene
implanted in their genome by Progenitor technicians.  Otherwise,
they are indistinguishable from humanity as a whole.

Family Estates:  Not applicable as a group, though many
of the first numbers of Manichaens were high-level Cabal
and Southron Republic dignitaries and members of society.
Most of them had estates in the southern tip of Africa.
Today's Manichaens have no real estate pattern.

Backgrounds:  Most Manichaens are high-society; the upper
upper classes of the Republic.  As the price of a Manichaen
transplant goes down, however, more and more of the middle
classes--including the burgeoning and swiftly growing black
middle class--are opting for the procedure.

Character Creation:  Dilattantes, Fantatics, you name it.
Any Nature/Demeanor combination is applicable these days,
however many of the older generation tend to lean towards
Director/Architect types.

Disciplines:  Only one, a minor form of Vicissitude.  Also,
the use of True Magicks for those templates who're already
versed in it.

Weaknesses:  There's a hidden weakness in the Manichaen,
though it hasn't yet been discovered and probably won't
for another decade or so.  Manichaens, like all Revenants,
must breed within their community to keep their line together.
However, fertility rates are low and not many Manichaens
have yet been born since the process was introduced.
Those that have been born, however, bear a striking resemblance
to one of the parents.  Soon it will be discovered that
Manichaens produce only copies of themselves.  There is
no genetic mixing of gametes.  They sire clones.  And not
just clones, but clones with the full range of memories
of the sire.  When this is discovered, much thought will
need to be put into whether or not something need be done.
Whilst a hundred Mozart-like Manichaens might be enjoyable,
a hundred Hitlers is a frightening thought, even to the
Cabal.

Preferred Paths:  Varies from individual to individual.

Family Organisation:  None, though there is an attempt
among the younger Manichaens to organise politically,
'networking' with others of their kind.  Since there are
no real ties of kinship, however, this seems an odd pro-
position to some.

Gaining Family Prestige:  Not applicable.

Sabbat Duties:  None.

                  
DE NANTS

Nicknames:  Baas (Afrikaans for 'Boss')

Description:  When Archbishop Manning uprooted most of the
British Sabbat and headed for southern Africa, he knew he
needed local support, being singularly unfamiliar with much
of the region.  A short while after arriving, he approached
a rich Boer burgher who lived in a vast wine-growing estate
outside of Johannesburg and offerred him and his own a chance
at immortality.  The burgher's name was Kyle de Nant.

Since then the de Nants have become the most trustworthy
(and useful) of the ghoul families, surpassing even the
Grimaldis, who remained esconced in Europe.  They number in
the thousands now and are tightly knit by overlapping and
incestuous bonds of kinship.  Their loyalty to the Sabbat
is unquestioned and total.  In return, they have become
the most powerful family in the Southron Republic and
are represented at all levels of Southron politics and
elite society.  In fact, the Praetor, the ceremonial head
of the nation, is a member of this Revenant clan.

Appearance:  De Nants are uniformally beautiful.  Even the
males have an almost feminine beauty to them, though nothing
so dramatic as the heart-stopping aura which surrounds the
de Nant females.  They're impeccable dressers and not a few
of them dominate the fashion world of Cape Town (and, thencely,
the entire Republic and most of the Eastern Hemisphere).

Family Estates:  There are well over a thousand de Nant
estates, though most of them are clustered in the southern
regions of the Republic (below the Dixie [Congo] river).  Each
estate tends to hold ten to fifteen members of the family.
Most estates also include vast game and safarii areas.

Backgrounds:  All de Nants are members of high society, whether
that be a dilettante or a member of Parliament.  They all
go to exclusive and ultra-secret private academies established
for their personal use only.  It is here that they usually
find a spouse (or are assigned one by the family elders).

Character Creation:  Director, Judge, Architect, these are
the primary Natures of the de Nants, and their Demeanors are
usually fairly similar, though more than a few Deviants are
known to exist (and thrive).  In fact, it is not too uncommon
to have a dual Nature, one of which happens to be Deviant.
Mental or Social Attributes are primary as are Knowledges or
Skills.

Disciplines:  Vicissitude, Presence and Protean

Weaknesses:  The dirty little secret of the de Nants is their
thinness of line.  In order to keep the family together, breeding
is carefully controlled and children are sired only one or two
removals from the primary.  It's not uncommon to find brother
and sister marry or, likewise, close cousins.  Strangely, no
genetic defects have surfaced, save the need to continue the
inbreeding.  Many attribute this to Vicissitude, but others
point out that no other ghoul family has been this closely
inbred without obvious problems cropping up.

Family Organisation:  Tightly knit. The family meets at a
massive conclave once per annum at the old de Nant estate
north of Jo'burg.  There they frolick and engage in abject
debauchery while the family elders plot further control of
the nation and minister unto their Tzimisce lords, who
always turn up to pay their respects to their trusted and
loyal servants.

Gaining Family Recognition:  Highly competitive, the Baas'
only method of attainting recognition is to achieve worldly
success.  Since their place in the Sabbat is solely based
upon their success in mortal affairs, it's obviously in
the de Nants' best interests to do a decent job.

Sabbat Duties:  Control.  The de Nants are expected to
exert control over all sectors of the nation.  They're
high-placed for this precise thing and they weild their
power well.  When the Cabal is set to release a certain
technology to the world or roll out the latest Biorg,
it is through de Nant companies or fronts that they do
it.  News is carefully filtered and controlled as every
single major publishing house is owned wholly or in part
by the de Nant clan.  They clean up after the Cabal's more
nastier disasters and reckless adventures and keep the
nation running efficiently.

NOTE ON RACE RELATIONS AND POPULATION DEMOGRAPHICS...

Initially, there were hardly any inhabitants in the Cape area.
A few odd tribes who would eventually be moulded into the Zulu
were there and a smattering of Bushmen but not much else.  In
our timeline, a massive influx of Bantu tribes came as they
were alternately pushed down by more aggressive northern
tribes in what is now Zaire and by the economic opportunity
found in the Cape Colony and the Natal.

In this timeline, however, the advent of such a vast number
of settlers makes that scenario untenable.  No mass migration
of Bantus occurred here.  Instead, the Cape remained (and still
is, predominantly) a white enclave.

Race relations back then were, typically, appalling.  No apartheid
policy was ever instituted, however.  With no Afrikaaner majority,
there was no desire for it in society.  Mind you, the ex-Confederates
and the British didn't desire to separate the races (in fact, mis-
cegenation rates were rather high), they simply felt (wrongly)
that the caucasian race was superior.

As the years and decades went by and the Southron Republic conquered
the rest of Africa, the Cabal knew they needed *all* the citizens
of the land if they wanted to secure domination over the planet's
paradigm.  So, the races were never officially segregated (though
natural economic and social pressures did cause some segration)
and no stigma was ever attached to the 'natives' as the Afrikaaners
did in our timeline in the 1940s.

Now, a prime reason for overpopulation is the need for large families
to cultivate the land and do the day-to-day items to keep said
families afloat.  Industrialised nations do not have this problem
and, thusly, have smaller families as reproductive rights and
lower infant mortality rates change the way society views having
children.  In the Southron Republic, such a thing happened early
on and, thusly, there isn't the burgeoning black population spinning
out of control.  Instead, there's a large black middle class fully
integrated into society.  The same is true of the Arabs in the
Maghreb area.  When you think of a Republic city, think not of
*our* Cape Town, but of, say, Richmond of today.  Integrated and
no problems (none apparent, anyway) as far as race relations
goes.  It's simply *not* an issue here.

Demographically-speaking, then, the only reason for a larger
white population than black is because the initial biotech advances
went to the whites.  When the blacks and the Arabs were brought
into the system, in the late 1800s, they had very high infant
mortality rates and low birth rates overall, whilst the whites
were in that transition zone were fertility was high and infant
mortality was going down but society *still* saw a need for large
families.  Hence, the odd (to us at least) notion of a white plurality
in the continent of Africa.

Cheers,

Arthur-Trevor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Arthur-Trevor D.M. Lasher
atlasher@ix.netcom.com
ISTJ...introversion at its worst
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"What is happening to me?
Crazy, some say.
Where is my friend when I need you most?
Gone away...

But I won't cry for yesterday.
There's an Ordinary World, somehow I have to find.
And as I try to make my way, to the Ordinary World
I will learn to survive."

Duran Duran, "Ordinary World"
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"I'm feeling much better now, Dave."  HAL 9000

