From nv91-asa@hei.nada.kth.se Mon Apr 18 17:28:29 1994
Date: Mon, 18 Apr 1994 17:04:25 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@hei.nada.kth.se>
Subject: The Spheres
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9404181725.A1227-0100000@hei.nada.kth.se>


The Spheres according to the Order of Hermes
--------------------------------------------
(By Frater IAM, Magister Templi of Ordo Rosae Crucis)


Everything in the universe is connected by unseen forces and
correspondences. When a leaf falls from a tree, it is
ordained by the cosmic forces which bind everything together
in a cosmic unity. The leaf can no more resist these forces
than a planet can change its orbit. Our goal as mages is to
understand and balance these forces into a perfect harmony. 

The four elements are the primal forces on the material
plane. They balance each other perfectly. creating everything
together. The higher, more etheric elements Fire and Water
balance the lower and material elements Air and Earth. The
heavy, stable elements Water and Earth balance the
changeability of Fire and Air. When the fifth element
animates them, they become alive and real. In nature, no
element is pure and all existing objects are mixtures of the
elements in different compositions. For example, to achive a
physical nature, Earth is required, while for transformations
Fire is required. The same is true of the spheres: 

Correspondence:
Space is created out of the interplay of the stability and
spatial nature of Earth and the clear mobility of Air.
Without the stability of Earth, distances would change and
the ordering of places would be random, without the mobility
and affinity for light which fills Air, movement and vision
would be impossible. 

Entropy:
Entropy is the chaotic and destructive union of Fire and
Water, destruction and changeability. On one hand Fire
destroys the old and damages the new, on the other hand it
gives place for the creation of new possibilities. Water
flows turbulently, washing the ashes away and nourishes the
new. But their interplay is often violent and unpredictable.
Purify with Water, consecrate with Fire. 

Forces:
When the power of the Fire mixes with Air, the forces of
nature are formed. Both elements are mercurial, powerful but
lacking stability.  The lightening bolt radiates the light of
Air and the heat of Fire, transforming and disrupting
anything it touches. 

Matter
Matter is the domain of Earth in all its manifestations. It
is heavy, sluggish and stable, forming the base on which to
built the temple of creation. 

Mind
Mind is almost pure Air, animated by the Fifth element. It is
quick, changeable, filled with the light of reason but also
capricious and the sphere of illusion. It is through this
element the other elements are made visible when the clear
light of reason illuminates them, giving them form and
meaning. 

Life
Life is the physical manifestation of Water animated by the
Fifth element. Water nurtures and grows forms and life, whose
essence is that of change and the ability to take on a
manifold shapes. Most living beings have a physical
manifestation made out of matter used to interact with the
world, but that is just a shell hiding the true patterns
underneath. 

Prime
Prime is the sphere of the Fifth Element, that essence which
animates the other elements and gives them life and physical
existence. The term quintessence describes its nature quite
aptly, but its real nature cannot be comprehended by any
uninitiated into the highest mysteries. 

Spirit
Spirit is the manifestation of Fire, the most etheric
element. The spiritual world is the purest and least material
of all aspects of physical reality. However, Fire is a
flickering and changing element, and the beings and general
nature of this plane are no less capricious. It is also the
element of transformation, the purifying flame which burns
away the impure shells and leaves the perfected nature
purified. 

Time
Time is the union of the changeable Air and Water. The
gradual flow of Water, mixed with the whirling light of Air
create the flow of casuality. Like in Water, a disturbance
will create waves which travel into infinity, but like Air,
the flow of history will simply flow around any obstracle to
its course. However, to try to change the flow is hard and
dangerous, as the whirpools of paradox are strong and
treacherous. 


Another interesting way of seeing the nine spheres is as the
interplay of the three alchemical elements, Salt, Sulphur and
Mercury. Each element mixes with another, creating the
sphere: 

		Mercury		Sulphur		Salt

Mercury		Prime		Spirit		Correspondence

Sulphur		Mind		Forces		Life

Salt		Time		Entropy		Matter

Note the duality around the central diagonal: Time and Space,
Life and Entropy, Mind and Spirit. Along the main diagonal we
see the progression from pure Prime, through the Forces of
the Universe to the manifestation of Matter. Note also that
there are nine spheres, the number of Yesod, the Foundation,
and that the square is 3x3, 3 being the number of Binah,
Understanding. 

Konx om pax
Khabs am pehkt
Light in extension


