From nv91-asa@black16.nada.kth.se Fri Sep  9 12:00:27 1994
Date: Fri, 9 Sep 1994 11:54:55 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@black16.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Spirit Rotes
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9409091155.F23357-0100000@black16.nada.kth.se>

Spirit Rotes

See the Astral World (Spirit 1 Mind 1)

To actually project into Astral Space is hard and requires hard
training and immense strength of will. However, to just see
what's in there requires much less preparations. Akashic
brothers cleanse themselves and meditate on the mental world,
while Dreamspeakers watch how the contents of the medicine
pouch fall. 


Find the Rift (Spirit 1/2 Correspondence 2 Time 2 Entropy 1)

This rote is used by Nephandi, Marauders and others of their
ilk to learn when and where the Gauntlet or Horizon will open
enough to let them through. Marauders usually use this rote
subconsciously, coincidentally appearing at the opening at the
exact right moment. 


The Invocation of the Four Archangels. (Spirit 2) 
<Hermetic rote>

The mage stand with his arms straight out to the sides, so that
his body forms a cross. He invokes the four Archangels: "Before
me Raphael. Behind me Gabriel. On my right hand, Michael. On my
left hand, Uriel. For around me flames the pentagram, and
within me shines the six-rayed star." By using this rote, the
mage will scare away most spirits, fearful for the powerful
Archangels and the powerful mage. The Rosicrucians have
developed their own version, the Lesser Banishing of the
Pentagram, which works in almost the same way. 

[ The Archangels will normally not appear in person, but will
(if the mage is lucky) send subordinates to the mage. They will
not manifest physically, but their presence is often felt. The
subordinate angels will scare away lesser beings from the
vicinity. After they are done, they will report back to their
superiors what happened. It is very unwise to misuse this
rote.]


Exorcism (Spirit 2)

The mage seeks to exorcise a spirit which has manifested on the
physical plane. In practice, the mage is trying to throw it out
in the Umbra again.  Most spirits are naturally opposed to
this, and will use any means necessary to prevent this. Most
spirits try to sneak away on the physical plane if they can or
the exorcist seems dangerous. Others attack the exorcist
physically, mentally or with cunning. 

[The rite is an extended action, where each success of the mage
temporarily decreases the Arete of the spirit during the
exorcism. The difficulty is the Arete of the spirit +4. If it
reaches zero the spirit is banished. If the mage botches the
spirit can possess him if it wants to, or even banish the soul
of the mage to the Umbra if it is powerful enough.]


Summon Succubus/Incubus (Spirit 2 Mind 2)

Succubi and Incubi are as much beings of desire as actual
spirits. They take their form from the wildest, most repressed
desires of their partners, intent on fulfilling all their
fantasies. This has made them excellent tools of corruption or
spies in the past. Many mages have also fallen for the
temptation of using them as lovers, which they are all too
willing to become.  The longer a succubus/incubus remain
physical and the more lovers it has, the more powerful will it
become until it is beyond the control of any mage.  However,
that haven't detained many mages from summoning a few. 


Feel the Grip of Paradox (Spirit 2 Correspondence 2)

After some paradox backlashes parts of reality vanishes into
paradox dimensions, often taking irritating mages and innocent
sleepers with them.  In these cases it is possible to find the
affected places long time afterwards due to the subtle
distortions of space left behind and the strains on the
Gauntlet. When such an area is found, a careful (as not to
invoke more paradox) study using Spirit and Correspondence can
often reveal the paradox dimensions and mini-realms which have
appeared. 


See the Dark World (Spirit 2 Entropy 2)

By singing and dancing the songs of mourning the dreamspeakers
are able to see the worlds of the dead and communicate with the
wraiths who live there. To see the dark world, they look
through the feather. To speak to the wraiths, they talk through
it and hold it to their ears to hear the replies. 


Guardian (Spirit 2 Matter 2)

The mage summons a lesser spirit, which is left guarding a
place or an object. Usually it is connected to a certain object
(idols or seals on parchments are popular). If something
specified beforehand happens, the spirit contacts the mage and
then leaves. 

[ Each success increases the awareness and alertness of the
spirit with 2. It will remain as long as the binding spell
lasts. ]


Bless the Faithful Servant (Prime 2 Spirit 2)

The mage blesses a spirit, pouring quintessence into its
pattern. This is something most spirits desire, as it will make
them more powerful in the long run. Besides, at least to a
human, they seem to derive pleasure from it. This rote is often
used to thank spirits who have helped the mage. The Cabalists
bless them in the name of Tetragrammaton and let the
quintessence flow from their seal, while dreamspeakers give
them crystals and medicine as gifts. 


Haunting (Spirit 2 Entropy 2)

The mage summons lots of minor spirits into an area to spread
an aura of eeriness. The result is a local haunting, where
spooky sounds can be heard (or was it just a branch tapping the
window?), plates fall from the shelves, small objects
mysteriously vanish, lightbulbs suddenly go out and similar
eerie happenings. The mood becomes slightly darker, with barely
perceived movements in the shadows and noise just below the
threshold of hearing. 


Spirit Messenger (Spirit 2 Correspondence 2)

A rote which was often employed during the Middle Ages by Order
of Hermes.  The mage summons a minor spirit, which is given a
message to deliver. The spirit flies away to the receiver,
delivers its message and vanishes (unless ordered to return
with an answer). The Order had long tables with the names of
suitable messengers, and especially valued spirits who could
communicate in several languages and work as interpreters. 


Bind Servitor (Spirit 2 Matter 3)

This ritual allows a summoned being to inhabit a material
object, like a knife, a statue or a fire. The being will gain
the power to use the object as a body; a statue will be able to
move, a knife will be able to stab or slip away, a fire will be
able to choose whether it will burn somebody or not. The ritual
must be done during the creation or reshaping of the object, to
make the link to the spirit the strongest. Sometimes mages
divide the ritual process into parts, and perform certain
stages on the right days. 


Ride With the Spirits (Spirit 2 Correspondence 2 Mind 3)

This rote allows a mage to perceive what a spirit perceives,
regardless of where it is. By using it again, the mage can
"jump" onto another spirit which the first one perceives. It
was used by a cabal of Cultists who used it to learn the
deepest and most frightening secrets of the Deep Umbra, but one
day they were found dead or incurably insane. To use this rote
on certain spirits is very unwise, partly because they might
notice it and take objection to it, partially because certain
beings are not wholesome for humans to contact or even see. 


Rousing the Spirits to spread the word (3 Spirit) 
<by Stephen Johnson>

Another ancient Dreamspeaker Rote that has fallen into disuse
and disfavor, it was important during the Impergium and before
the rise of the Technocracy but has become less so with the
increasing power of the Gauntlet. This Rote calls all the
available spirits near the Mage to allow the spreading of news
of potential dangers to all the Awakened. 

[Each success after the first increases the range and number of
spirits called.  All spirits called are compelled to pass along
whatever message the Mage wishes to spread.]


Break Through the Veil of Dream (Spirit 3 Mind 2)

The mage breaks down the Gauntlet into the dreams of a sleeping
person. In this way the mage can visit other people in their
dreams and influence their dreams. There are often links to the
chimerae from these dreams, which makes this rote useful to get
there. Some mages even open portals others can pass into the
dreams, but this has of course the added risk that beings and
things from the dreamworld can escape. The dreams of people who
are awake can also be visited, since they often persist a short
while after the sleep.  Many such dreams have been linked
stronger to the chimerae or started to dissolve. To remain
inside a dream which dissolves is naturally extremely
dangerous. 

[Using Correspondence the mage can visit dreams of people far
away, and Spirit 4 can open a physical portal. Inside the
dream, the paradigm is largely decided by the subconscious of
the sleeper, and normally quite loose. Most magick is
coincidental, but some very inhibited sleepers may react
negatively to it at a subconscious level, turning the dream
into a nightmare.]


Burnt offering (Spirit 3 Prime 3)

Many spirits are extremely interested in the material world and
its pleasures, especially those who for different reasons
cannot manifest there. This is sometimes very useful for mages
seeking their aid, as they can be placated with gifts of food
and liquor (some spirits even prefer such gifts before
Quintessence). A common method of sending gifts to the spirit
plane is to ceremonially burn them, and thus let their essence
appear by the spirits. 


"KINDRED" SPIRITS (Prime 3, Spirit 3) 
<Sons of Jupiter by Jack Dracula>

This impolite rote is a dangerous way to get Quintessence from
smaller spirits. The mage uses Spirit to call a smaller spirit
[trust me, go for a small one.] which the mage then attacks,
and drains the Quintessence from. Also note how dangerous this
be, as many spirits are but servants of more powerful beings
you don't want to piss off. 


The Blasting Rod (Spirit 3 Forces 3 or 5, Prime 2) <Goetics>

This rote uses a hazel staff, which is used to punish
disobedient or aggressive spirits. The mage releases flashes of
force against beings in the umbra while he is still in the
physical world, damaging or driving away spirits. It is very
effective way to force spirits summoned into the Triangle to
obey, as many cannot leave until given permission and the mage
may beat them to submission. 


The Sign of Koth (Spirit 4) <Nephandi>

This sign is placed on doors and openings to seal them from
umbrood beings. When drawn, the mage must infuse it with Tass
to connect it to Koth, whoever or whatever that is. Most
Umbrood, even many of the most powerful respect it since they
fear the power of Koth. However, there is a catch: If the door
is opened, it lets the beings in and out. And there is the
added danger and fear of whatever Koth is, and what happens
when the mage contacts it.  The Nephandi knows, but they don't
tell anybody... 


Vinculum (Spirit 4 Matter 2)

This rote is a classic method of binding spirits, mainly used
by Order of Hermes. Part of the spirit is simply forced into a
material object and locked in place. The spirit has to choose
between leaving the object, or ripping itself apart. Such
spirit-fetters are a very useful way of taming dangerous
spirits or to keep spirits imprisoned in the material world. A
common addition to the rote is a condition which will hurt the
spirit if it tries to affect the object, or even destroys the
object plus the essence of the spirit if it is harmed. 


Consecrate Circle (Spirit 4 Prime 3)

This hermetic ritual is used to consecrate a Circle and/or
Triangle to make it easier to summon spirits into it, and
strengthen its protective properties. Usually it is done by
sacrifices to the invisible rulers of the spirit world, and
long incantation of god- names. [ Each success will decrease
the gauntlet inside the Circle and/or Triangle with 1 and
increase it along the circumference.]


Eat Spirit (Spirit 4 Life 3)

This rote was reputedly invented by a very eccentric hermetic
mage, who boasted that he had tasted everything on earth. He
finally decided to taste something not of this earth, and
invented this rote. By drawing a complex hermetic circle,
trapping a spirit inside and forcing it to manifest, he was
able to make it material... and edible. According to the
stories (which diverge on this), the etheric flesh of the
spirit was either the greatest disappointment of his life or of
such an exquisite flavour that he never ever could eat any
earthly food ever again. 


Charge Gauntlet ( **** Spirit, *** Forces, ** Prime ) by Michael M. Moolick

        Many Void Engineers have to spend at least some of their time
on "border patrol", guarding and maintaining the Gauntlet.  They often
think of their gauntlet as a fence between the spirtual and physical
worlds.
        There are things out there that can break and practical fence.
The Void Engineers do just what sleepers do when a fence has to hold
something really big back, ther Electrify it!
        They use the gauntlet as a non-conductive material, and seperate
a charge into the material and spiritual worlds.  The charges stick together
due to electrostatic attraction, but can't normally touch.
        Whenever something tries to cross the gauntlet, it becomes a
conduite between these worlds. ZZZaaaap!  Mucho voltage.  The dischage is
quite spectacular ( one of the rewards of the often thankless job of a
border guard ).

[       The discharge causes successes x2 damage.  In addition, each
level not soaked also removes one success from any attempt to cross
the gauntlet.  One use of the rote can create a number of discharges
no greater than the number of successes. ]


Rune of Ownership (Spirit 4 Matter/Life 4)

This spiritual sign is drawn on an item (or being), which will
be marked forever as a possession of the mage. This will work
as long as the mage doesn't sell, give away or free the marked.
To mark something, the mage must own and control it at least
for the moment. Even Avatars can be marked in such a way if the
person in question truly agrees about his servitude with the
marker for a moment. This is the way many Nephandi collect
Avatars for their masters (who may have the ownership of their
souls...). It is also used by some normal mages to mark their
possessions (in this case Spirit 2 is all that is needed), and
in old times many mages marked their possessions before their
death to be able to bring them with them into the Underworld. 


Creating the Magical Mystery Machine (4 Matter, 4 Spirit, 
2 Prime) <by Stephen Johnson>

This Rote was originally taught within the Order of Hermes as a
quick method of creating reliable transport in the Umbra. 
After leaving the Technocracy the Sons of Ether used this Rote
to create graceful and imaginative Ether sailing ships in the
Umbra.  Then an unknown Cult of Ecstasy member, on a very
strange and powerful trip during the nineteen sixties, while
listening to the Beetles Sergeant Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club
Band record, changed the perceptions of this Rote forever. 
Since that fateful day no Tradition Mage is ever sure of what
this Rote will create, Cult of Ecstasy members claim that being
in the midst of a real mellow trip when using this Rote makes
the result look, "Really COOL man!"

[With one success the Mage creates a breech in the gauntlet,
usually manifesting as an invisible doorway, and a small slow
Umbral craft which the Mage can use the doorway to gain access
to.  For each additional success the Umbral craft created
becomes larger and faster.  Unfortunately the Mage has
absolutely no control over what the Umbral craft looks like or
how it propels itself through the Umbra.  This totally in the
hands of the Storyteller and is usually very wild.  The Cult of
Ecstasy thinks this effect is really cool, the comments of
other Traditions are unprintable.]


Program Expert System (Spirit 4 Mind 3/4 Prime 2)

The Virtual Adepts are very interested in the possibility of
creating their own customised expert systems and AIs. This is
by no means a simple feat, and AI-programmers are regarded as
very Elite by the Adepts. To create a simple expert system, the
programmer must first create a system which can hold
information and act on its own. Then it must be programmed with
the necessary skills, behaviours and personality to become
functional. This is usually done by having the programmed
download part of his memories and skills into the system, and
then modifying them to fit in. The result is an autonomous
system, which exhibits personality traits and behaviours almost
like a real being, although it is not really intelligent or
self-aware. The expert system is not truly intelligent, its
just a crude simulation (true AI is much harder), but its often
hard to tell a cleverly designed Expert from true intelligence. 

[ Each success lets the mage download one skill-point into the
system (its often a good idea to slowly build the system under
a long time as an extended action). The skills and memories
must come from the mage self, or be downloaded with Mind 4 from
another person. Personality is up to the designer to determine,
but often elements from himself sneaks in. If the mage doesn't
succeed in making the magick permanent, the expert will crash
after a while and have to be rebooted. ]


Purify Paradigm (Spirit 4 Entropy 3 Prime 3)

This rote is coincidentally used by technomancers when they
build their central laboratories and other installations. By
making sure that everything inside is perfectly ordered and
that nobody questions the paradigm in any way, and then
channels some quintessence (funding) into it, they can fix the
paradigm to become "hyper-static". The Gauntlet is quite
impermeable.  Randomness and decay is banished. Experiments
will be completely repeatable, and follow theory exactly. The
whole area follows their paradigm and actively dampens all
forms of magick not compatible with it. A weaker version of
this rote is used around important people or in the homes of
technomancers. 

[ Each success will increase the Gauntlet rating one step, and
give the area and anything within a extra dice of countermagick
against everything not consistent with the paradigm. ]


Dissolve Spirit (Spirit 4 Entropy 4)

To actually destroy a spirit is often extremely hard, but it is
possible. This rote dissolves the spiritual essence of the
spirit and scatters it for the winds. This will destroy lesser
spirits, but really powerful spirits can sometimes reappear
after a considerable time, often both weakened and desperate
for revenge. To make sure the spirit is destroyed, either the
True Name of the spirit has to be used or Prime 4 can be used
to unravel the remaining patterns into nothingness (but even
then, extraordinary powerful spirits may return sometime in the
far future). 

[ The rote does aggravated damage against Spirits. If they are
reduced below Incapacitated, they are destroyed or banished for
a very long time if they are powerful enough. ]


Spirit Flask (Spirit 4 Matter 3)

Another classic rote. By making a material container impervious
to spirits, they can be trapped inside and only escape if
somebody opens it. The trick is to get them inside... 


Sustain Existence (Prime 2 Spirit 4)

A great but fortunately uncommon danger is the risk in
being trapped in a decaying reality. This problem is most
often encountered under the creation of Horizon realms,
since many early attempts often break down as the reality
crumbles due to unexpected internal stresses, or near the
chaotic and Wyld zones left in the Umbra by Marauders. An
unprotected mage trapped inside a reality whose existence
is unravelling will vanish together with the reality
unless he can enforce his own reality strong enough or at
least uphold reality around him. Order of Hermes have
developed a effective version where the mage protects
everything inside his circle while constantly drawing
powerful symbols along the perimeter with the seal, while
the Virtual Adepts (whose early realms had an unfortunate
tendency to crash at a drop of a hat) weave a web of
network connections around themselves, protecting
themselves by the built-in defences and inherent stability
of the network.  

[The mage must constantly refuel all patterns around him
with quintessence to prevent them from loosing their
reality. Spirit is used to supply "base reality" in the
vicinity regardless of the nature of surrounding reality.
Often the local gauntlet is hardened as much as possible
to bring more stability to the region. ]


Rain of Fire and Brimstone (Spirit 5 Forces 2)

This rote is a classic, and like all classic rotes it is
practically never used. The mage simply opens a gate to the
Realm of Fire (close to the Shard Realm of Forces) and lets the
destructive power descend unpon his enemies, buildings or whole
cities. Of course, the gate must be big enough to let through
the almost liquid fire. When the rote is used on a large scale,
storming clouds will appear around the opening portal, and then
a huge rain of destruction will fall on anything beneath. 
Lesser openings often appear as erupting craters or explosions. 

[ Note that the mage has absolutely no control of what passes
through the gate, and often extremely powerful and malevoent
elementals or djinns escape. The destruction caused is untold,
and is in no way dependent on the power of the mage, who only
serves as gatekeeper. ]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




