From: grimoire@ix.netcom.com (Kevin Andrew Murphy)
Subject: Re: A Storyteller needing help with Mage
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
Date: Sat, 04 Jan 1997 19:27:38 GMT
Organization: Netcom
Path: news.kth.se!nntp.uio.no!nntp-oslo.UNINETT.no!nntp-trd.UNINETT.no!news-stkh.gsl.net!news.gsl.net!news-paris.gsl.net!news.gsl.net!news-peer.gsl.net!news.gsl.net!ix.netcom.com!news
Lines: 50
Message-ID: <5ambjr$h42@sjx-ixn8.ix.netcom.com>
References: <5ajnqp$8fe@lex.zippo.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: sjc-ca10-22.ix.netcom.com
X-NETCOM-Date: Sat Jan 04 11:38:35 AM PST 1997
X-Newsreader: Forte Free Agent 1.0.82
Xref: news.kth.se alt.games.whitewolf:89673

Malcolm wrote:

>Hey there everyone.
>I'm running (trying to at least) a Mage campaign...but I've got a block.
>Do any Mage STs out there have any Story ideas they want to share?

>If so, please post them here or mail them to 
>Malcolm@hyperchat.com

>Thanks!

Personally, my favorite is messing with the players preconceived
notions.  They're all prepared to deal with soulless Hit Marks and
other soldier drones of Iteration X, but it does a real head trip on
them when they find the I-Tex bionic surgeon who's been hardwired with
the Asimovian Protocols and the Hypocratic Oath as superior to the
Precepts of Damian.  After all, I-Tex is about perfection and the
perfection of the machine.  A physician who kills people, or allows
them to be killed, is by definition not a perfect physician.  Major
head trip on the VA when she found that the I-Tex cyborg had NOT
uploaded her coordinates to Autocthonia.

Same thing with the Marauders.  Characters a couple days ago flipped
out because they couldn't figure out whether they were dealing with a
Marauder or just an Orphan skate punk who didn't give a damn and
subscribed to Maude's philosophy from HAROLD AND MAUDE: "It's just my
way of reminding people that nothing's permanent in this world."  So
there's now a midget in the psych ward claiming that he was 6'5" until
this skatepunk zapped him with a Buck Rogers raygun.  Is the kid
crazy, or is he just an anarchist who doesn't have to deal with the
problems he causes since his M.O. is to use a Hermes Portal to skip
town?  They don't know.  They talked with him, and they can't tell
whether he's loopy or just a normal (albeit highly Awakened) fourteen
year old who's acting his age and having fun.

Since the chantry doesn't have one bit of Warding on it, on Monday the
players are going to find the need for it, since I plan for Skip the
Skatepunk to come in and packrat the SOE's Unique Focus Device,
leaving his shrinking raygun in its place.  ("It was getting old
anyway.")



Kevin Andrew Murphy

Author of assorted Goth weirdness

New fiction available at:
http://www.sff.net/people/Kevin.A.Murphy

