From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Mon Apr 18 03:35:32 1997
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from f29.hotmail.com (F29.hotmail.com [207.82.250.40])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.8.4/8.8.4) with ESMTP
	id DAA27721 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Fri, 18 Apr 1997 03:35:24 +0200 (MET DST)
Received: (from root@localhost) by f29.hotmail.com (8.7.5/8.7.3) id SAA22131; Thu, 17 Apr 1997 18:33:13 -0700 (PDT)
Message-Id: <199704180133.SAA22131@f29.hotmail.com>
Received: from 128.163.116.140 by www.hotmail.com with HTTP;
	Thu, 17 Apr 1997 18:32:47 PDT
X-Originating-IP: [128.163.116.140]
From: "Peter Sears" <kinesys@hotmail.com>
To: nv91-asa@nada.kth.se
Subject: some Syndicate rotes
Content-Type: text/plain
Date: Thu, 17 Apr 1997 18:32:47 PDT
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit

Some Syndicate Rotes:

Public Pulse: (Entropy 2,Mind 2)
This Rote is often used in some sort of extended ritual which often includes 
going into the street and asking a few people their opinions. But can also be 
performed with the simple expedient of browsing over some demographical data. It 
enables the Syndicate mage to know what will sell and what will not sell, what 
will work in the market place and what will not work in the marketplace. 
Basically,the mage uses entropy to find the  the opinion of the broadest sample 
of humanity in the least amount of time and extrapolates the response. Famous 
botches on this roll include the Edsel, beta video tape format and New Coke. 
This rote is often used by both Media Elite and the Financiers.

Market Stability( Entropy 2,Mind 2 and sometimes Time 2 or 3)
No matter how much the Financiers think they control the market ,they don't 
really.
Admittedly they are the very best at manipulating it but they often have to 
contend with unforseen difficulties far from their area of influence,Other 
supernatural entities who are  manipulating the market for their own ends, 
National disagreements and competition and the hyperdynamic nature of the Market 
itself.(the Market is an aspect of reality that especially sensitive to the 
vagaries of  consensual reality. Older Syndicate members with influence in 
Spirit speculate that the Market has a very very powerful spiritual component of 
possibly Incarna level, they do not know whether this entity is sentient or not. 
Some even suspect that it is an amalgam of all the deities of commerce and trade 
from the mythologies of the world. Such Syndicate mages are usually scoffed at 
by their fellows as being "Bull and Bear Worshippers." but they aren¹t actively 
suppressed by their fellows on the off chance that they might be right.)
   The rote is usually an extended procedure. Mind is used to soothe the minds 
of other investors and brokers, Entropy is used to identify trouble spots and 
bring subtle order to the market and Time is used to project what the Market 
will do. In extreme circumstances, Time 3 might be used to slow down or speed up 
certain Market trends
but this process verges on vulgarity and is usually discouraged in all but the 
most serious emergencies.

Crash(Entropy 5)
In some ways, the market is like a forest. If it doesn¹t have a good forrest 
fire every once in while,the underbrush starts to choke the bigger trees to 
death.This extended ritual is used to stabilize certain economies in relation to 
others, and to rip the tits off of other supernatural investors (up to and 
including wayward syndicate members.)
The large form of this rote can only be cast with a 2/3¹s majority vote of the 
Financiers and the Pawnbrokers.
   The smaller form of this rote can be cast by any Syndicate mage with Entropy 
5 and can cause localized market failures,bank failures, corporate bankruptcy, 
and a host of other mischief. (unauthorized use of this rote can get you dead 
very quickly. This rote is considered an act of war when cast by one syndicate 
mage on another. The inner council will move very quickly to squelch this sort 
of thing. You have been warned.)

Market Projection(Time 2)
Enables a Financier to chart the course of a bond,stock,mutual fund or any other 
piece of financial information. It is not recommended for Financiers to try to 
see the path of stock past 2 or 3 weeks.(because of the very dynamic nature of 
the Market.) it is also not recommended to try to read the whole market at 
once.(the shear glut of information will drive you into an incredibly deep 
quiet.)

Planned Obsolesence(Entropy 3)
   A process that almost isn't a process anymore. Introduced at a Symposium by 
the Media Elite and the Financiers and adopted wholeheartedly by them and the 
Time-
Motion Managers. Basically it involves the controlled decay of material objects 
so that the consumers have to go out and buy a new one. This is why shit breaks 
down the day after the warranty runs out. Very useful in car chases.

E.F. Hutton(Mind 2)
Sometimes overused by Financiers and Pawnbrokers, even used by Media Elite and 
the Enforcers. Temporarily used to increase ones Influence score by 1 for every 
2 successes on the roll. Any Syndicate mage worth his salt will realize this is 
being used against him.

Stay Bought(Prime 3 and Mind 2)
One of the sneakier secrets of Pawnbrokers. Often requires the Mage to give the 
target something which the target must accept.(often this involves attache cases 
of money or
pictures of senators frolicking with other nude people.) The mage expresses 
prime into the object to fuel the mental pattern that is impressed upon the 
object. It is in this way that the Syndicate gets and holds on to power. In 
other words,the target "Stays bought." The process works even if the target 
spends the money or burns the pictures.
the act of accepting the package accepts the mental pattern.

"Networking" (Mind 2 and Entropy 2)
 A Syndicate Mage goes someplace like a party or a bar and every person in the 
place that possibly can do something for that mage will come out of the woodwork 
to give him their business card. ( Certain Tradition mages have hinted darkly 
the entire game of Golf was invented for the sole purpose of using this rote.)

Corporate Loyalty (Mind 2 Correspondence 2 Prime 3)
 Created by Japanese Syndicate Mages to help the Zaibatsus. This Rote involves 
creating an area in which sleepers are bombarded with subliminal broadcasts and 
corporate propaganda which erodes the ability to act in any way against the 
company.
Each success on the roll adds +1 to the difficulty of acting against the company 
even if supernaturally coerced.

Kaizening ( usually Matter 4 or 5)
This is a process developed by Japanese Syndicate mages which enables them to do 
incredibly small scale improvements over many generations of the same product.
Thus a boom box becomes better and better with each new model that is put out. 
It become lighter and more durable and eventually beats everything on the market 
in terms of sound quality. In so doing, products and technological foci become 
more and more advanced and push the envelope of consensual technology. ( where 
Americans allways look for the next quantum leap forward, Japanese tend to hone 
current technology to a fine razor keen edge. Of course,no matter how good these 
products become, they are still going to be treated with the Planned obsolesence 
rote.
  Please note that this is one of those procedures that almost isn¹t magickal at 
all.

Financial Meltdown(Entropy 2 and Mind 2)
One of the few procedures that each and every Syndicate mage knows. This attack 
rote enables the Syndicate mage to endow a target with Arcane. The Mage in 
question
needs access to some computer network for this rote to be coincidental. For each 
success on the arete roll, the target gains a dot of Arcane that he or she 
cannot control. (the mage can allways turn it off at will making it easier to 
lay hands on the target.) This usually manifests itself as a localized  
catastrophic Financial failure.( the I.R.S. want to know what happened to their 
records on you, Your bank declares your account invalid because you are "dead."  
Financial deals fall through because of dumb luck, The practical upshot of this 
rote is almost allways a freeze on the targets monetary resources. ( 
countermagick,allies and contacts can mitigate this somewhat.) Syndicate mages 
often use this rote in an extended ritual to break the finances of Political 
groups, eco-activists, and unions.

Bread and Circuses ( Mind 3)
Because the Syndicate has worked so hard to put Televisions in every home they 
are able to reap the benefit of it's effects.
   Not everybody knows this, and this is absolutely true, but watching 
television can alter your brainwave patterns. Most people go from Beta waves 
(ordinary everyday
problem solving mind) to Alpha waves(passive,imaging,suggestible mind) in the 
space of ten seconds.
   A Syndicate Media Elite mage can use a portable Alpha generator to dolorize 
the minds of his targets. Such generators can be concealed in wristwatches or in 
extremis
the Media mage may use a television or V.R.  rig as a focus for the magick.
The rote adds +1 to the difficulty of any willpower roll or any roll that 
requires concentration(including magick) for each success on the arete roll.
(note that the Concentration modifier on a magick roll cannot go higher than +3 
but
everything else can exceed that.  The Concentrate Merit and Iron Will can 
mitigate or
nullify these effects.

Ad campaign (Entropy 2 and Mind 2)
This rote is used by Media Elite to create public knowledge of some person or 
thing. Some of it requires placing ads to announce it's existence but this rote 
goes far beyond that. Using this proceedure causes the information to find it¹s 
way into the right ears. This is the way it works.
1) The Syndicate wants to push a particular Movie.
2) A blurb appears in a particular magazine about the filming, Say,Cosmo or 
Details or
G.Q. or Starlog or whatever...
3) maybe a month later, Some magazine has an article that interviews one of the 
stars
of the movie for some completely different reason and he mentions the flick.
4) an artificial scandal is created that creates buzz in all the movie trade 
magazines which eventually filters out into the wider media (Entertainment 
Tonight, People.)
5) As filming is begining to wrap, Media begins to swarm in to get the buzz on 
the flick.
6) trailers for the film are created with subliminal come-ons.
7) they put up a lame-ass website.
8) T.V. commercials for the movie expose the thing to people who are really not 
followers of the industry or who just haven't managed to get the message yet.
9) Movie opens, is a typical piece of hollywood shit,makes 70 million dollars in 
three weekends before the Magick wears off.

Often, the Syndicate can make entire careers for people who have no discernable 
talent by touting them as the next Big thing.(Jenny Mccarthy and Pauly Shore 
leap to mind .)

Trapdoor (Entropy 2 and Mind 4)
At times, it becomes necessary to get rid of a show. or actor ( either because 
their art is not profitable enough,they pissed the wrong people off,they have 
awkward political beliefs, or they are trying to actually educate the public, 
something the Syndicate allways frowns on.) This Procedure make it much harder 
for the target in question
to get work or sponsors.(Good shows get cancelled all the time, they go on 
hiatus,
the writers who made the show what it is get fired or hired away, Sponsors pull 
out for a number of reasons and the show or the actor in question sinks into the 
dusky cobwebs of obscurity....or worse, finds themselves hawking psychics on 
T.V., working overseas, or sticking up a video store.

"I will find you." (Corr 2, Mind 3,Entropy 2 )
Used by the Enforcers to make hunting easier. The Enforcer must manage to touch 
the target in some familiar way. thereafter, the Enforcer will have insanely 
good luck in finding the target whenever he wants to lay his hands on him. This 
Procedure is one of the basis for the Mafia vaunted ability to find anybody who 
has crossed them. It is also one of the reasons that family men are very 
familiar with one another(as a sign of respect and trust.) You will notice that 
asian organized criminals refuse to go in for this kind of thing and they 
percieve it as an insult.

"You ever hear what happened to Big Sal?"(Entropy 2,Mind 2)
An Enforcer can create a name for himself as a tough customer simply by the 
expedient of killing somebody and making sure that no one sees it. Through the 
use of this procedure, the story of what happened to the guy gets more and more 
grisly as it is retold. This has the effect of giving the Enforcer an additonal 
die for any sort of Interrogation roll or intimidation roll for each success on 
the arete roll. When creating this procedure, the mage must accumulate at least 
5 successes for the magick to work for an appreciable duration. The additional 
dice pool is taken from the first magick roll.

Talkaround(mind 2)
Enforcers of all ethnic persuasions have one thing in common, they are 
constantly monitored by law enforcement types. as such, they have developed a 
method of speaking to one another without saying anything about what they are 
really saying.
In this way, a group of mobsters talking about Giancarlo's funeral, can plan 
their strikes against the Vampire scumbags who did it without tipping of the 
feds(and incidentaly, the N.W.O)  who are definitely listening.

"Buckwheats"(entropy 4,time 3)
a Mafia term for a type of contract killing that is done in such a way as to be 
agonizingly painfull for the victim. Most contract killing are hardly that, but 
Buckwheats, is usually reserved for traitors,informers,whelchers, and other 
people who need to serve as an object lesson. Entropy 4 is used to degrade the 
victims life pattern while Time 3 is used to slow the process to a crawl and 
make it more painfull. This process is rarely used against enemy mages(who can 
countermagick) or against those with natural regeneration. The look on the 
victims face is usually good for a nightmare or two.

Commodities( Varying levels of Spirit and Matter)
One of the reasons that Syndicate Mages seem to be on good terms with a number 
of spiritual entities is the very simple fact that they cheat. Special 
projects(in collusion with the Void engineers Research and Execution) has 
developed Dimensional science to a phenomenal degree. Special Projects Mages cut 
deals with spirits of many different power levels in exchange for certain 
Material objects that they manufacture and transform into ephemera or by 
creating objects directly into the umbra that cannot exist in consensual 
reality. Favor brokering is very very key to syndicate survival. And the 
Syndicate knows that when,(not if...when) Iteration X
comes after them, they had better have that ace in the hole ready.

Summon Netspider(Spirit 2 and Mind 3)
Lets face it. The Syndicate mages are never going to be as good at manipulating 
the web as the Virtuals are and they are even having a tough time with the 
Pentex I.C.S.
   but they do have have an advantage in certain types of things. Syndicate 
mages have taken the times to cultivate a very good relationship with Net 
spiders. By spreading a bit of Quintessence around and taking some time to learn 
their bizarre language. the Syndicate has managed to garner a small army of 
indefatigable
little spies that can move in the web as a fish moves through water. They are 
usefull for trashing enemy systems, guarding the home databse, and keeping an 
eye on people that an eye needs to be kept on. They eat encryption schemes like 
they were gingerbread and the N.W.O  and Iterators almost never thinks about 
them.

Snafu(Entropy2)
One of the most closely guarded secrets of the enforcer branch of the syndicate 
is this effective little rote which usually causes bad luck to those who are 
protected by it.
The Mage using this rote rolls arete and for each success he collects on the 
first roll
he can add +1 to the snafu. allthough he must collect 5 successes to cause the 
rote to have any meaningfull duration.
  Thereafter, any person attempting violent or aggresive action against the mage 
so protected must add the modifier to the difficulty of his first attack roll. 
This only affects the first roll from any given opponent and only goes up to a 
difficulty of 10 of course.
   Mafia history is literally rife with botched assasination attempts and 
screw-ups on the part of the shooters. This rote usually allows the mage in 
question an opportunity to defend himself. Because of the nature of this rote it 
is nearly impossible to tell if it is in operation but conversly it is also damn 
near impossible for the mage using it to tell if it has worn off.

Omerta(mind 4)
italian for "silence", this rote makes sure that you didn¹t see nothing,and you 
don¹t know nothing. Basically the procedure entails the Enforcer talking the 
target into forgetting everything and the target being willing to edit his own 
memory. Might require an intimidation roll.

This Offer you can't refuse has been brought to you by....
Kinesys@hotmail.com (Home of Reverend X.S. Kinesys)
Dogma= absence of thought.
Catma=absence of care.


---------------------------------------------------------
Get Your *Web-Based* Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
---------------------------------------------------------

