From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Wed Aug 23 13:29:44 1995
Date: Wed, 23 Aug 1995 13:29:42 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
To: wod-l <wod-l@netcom.com>
Subject: Some Talismans
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.91N2.950823132823.18419A-100000@hemul.nada.kth.se>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Status: O
X-Status: D

Cracked Mirror *

This little talisman looks just like a cracked hand mirror with a
golden frame (somewhat tarnished). Anything seen through it will
appear aged, dirty or damaged and the mage will appear as a
rotting corpse. Through the cracks and distorted reflections
glimpses of the Shadowlands and their inhabitants can be seen,
and Wraiths are able to peer through it into the lands of the
living. 

[The first time someone uses the mirror, he has to succeed at a
willpower roll of difficulty 4 to stand the image of himself
(this should be adjusted by personality, of course). Only one
success is needed]


Golden Fertiliser *

This potion is prepared by the Verbena through a complex process
during the summer solstice, where the vital force of summer and
growth is distilled into the cauldron. The result is small vials
of a golden liquid smelling strongly of flowers and glittering
strangely in sunlight. It is filled with Quintessence, and speeds
up the growth of plants immensely. If given in a diluted
solution, it will just work as a fantastic fertiliser, making
even the driest garden bloom in a short while. If a few drops of
the potion are poured into the soil beneath a plant, it will
begin to grow at an fantastic rate, reaching adult size within a
few hours or days. If more is poured, the growth will become even
quicker and the plant will grow to giant size; a whole vial could
easily create dandelions the size of trees.  Unfortunately such
quick growth also shortens the lifespan of the plant, and it will
die within hours or days. 

[To create this potion, the Verbena uses Prime 3 to concentrate
quintessence from the node around her into the Cauldron and bind
it with a Life 2 Time 3 spell to enhance plant growth. Some have
experimented with a similar potion for animal growth, but the
result were quite unreliable. This has not deterred some Sons of
Ether who constantly try to replicate it. ]


Fekdodap **

This musical instrument was originally devised by mages living in
the Shard Realm of Mind, and a few of these have appeared on
Earth. The fekdodap is a bizarre contraption, looking like a
combination of a harp and a saxophone; it is covered with buttons
and strings, and the player blows through a mouthpiece formed
like a snakes-head. The sound is equally bizarre, the weird
harmonies are not unpleasant, but make most listeners uneasy. The
real reason is that the instrument actually empowers the
imagination, and can make listeners experience remote places and
times, scenes from the deep umbra and their own subconscious if
the listener is sufficiently relaxed or unaware (it greatly
enhances dreaming if played to sleeping people, and its effects
on LSD trips is beyond belief). 


The Bible of Gregorius **

The book is old and worn leather, with an almost imperceptible
imprint of the Crucifixion on the cover. It contains several
books from the Bible, a few medieval religious texts and a
lengthy commentary (In Latin). What makes this book unusual is
that by randomly opening it and reading, the reader will usually
find the answer to his current concerns and troubles. However,
these answers are somewhat biased towards the views of a friendly
medieval monk, although they are always comforting and filled
with common sense. 


The Crusader Sword **

This sword is well forged, and a magnificent blade despite the
lack of any ostentatious ornamentation - it is beautiful in its
simple functionality. What makes it especially useful is that the
wielder will become free of doubt; no matter what his cause is,
he will deeply feel that it is righteous and holy. No temptation
or distraction whatsoever can make his faith in his duty waver. 


The Ink of Truthfulness **

This kind of ink is usually kept in specially sealed flasks,
covered with elaborate symbols of truth, justice and honesty. Any
contract written and signed in this ink will instantly catch fire
if one of the parts breaks his obligations. If special curses or
threats are invoked in the text, they will come true (within
reason, the ink is only able to cause random coincidental effects
like Entropy 2). The ink will also react similarly when used to
write testimonies or descriptions. 


Mobius Ring ***

This is a simple ring, consisting of a single band of gold
twisted a half-turn before joining itself. If the wearer twists
it on his finger, he will immediately (and vulgarly) vanish into
a kind of pocket dimension, a kind of Correspondence Paradox
realm. Everything is as before, but its own mirror image and
without any other people.  Another twist of the ring, and the
wearer is back in reality again.  The ring unfortunately have a
drawback - when used too often the mage begins to slip between
the worlds more and more, even when he don't want to, and finally
end up completely imprisoned within the realm when the ring
suddenly shifts without him. 


The Red Map ***

This talisman is legendary among certain groups of Mages,
although its actual whereabouts are unknown. Physically it is
just a parchment map, dyed a deep red and covered with unfamiliar
symbols and diagrams. However, when the mage pours his own blood
over it, they begin to make sense and will show him the way to
any destination on Earth, in the Umbra or elsewhere. 
Unfortunately, the map becomes illegible when the blood has
dried, so the mage has to pour more blood on it to keep it
legible. Quite naturally, many mages think it is of kindred
manufacture. 

[The mage has to pour blood equal to one wound level on the map
to use it. The map essentially works as Correspondence 3, Filter
All- Space, but actually shows a possible way to the destination.
It is not necessarily the fastest or safest way, but it is a
possible way for the mage. ]


Talisman of the Beast ***

This is simply a piece of dried bear hide, with a simple symbol
painted using a mixture of blood and cinnabar on one side. It is
worn around the neck in a thin leather strap. The wearer is now
protected from all wild beasts, who will avoid him or ignore him
as long as he ignores them. It even works against Werewolves, who
are unable to do anything against the mage as long as he doesn't
acknowledge them or their actions. 

[ The talisman makes all wild beasts ignore the mage or see him
as a natural feature. Garou have to overcome the Arete of the
mage with their Gnosis to act against him in any way. ]


The Medallion of Leonardo da Vinci ***

This is a bronze medallion, showing the classic diagram of the
human proportions by Leonardo da Vinci on one side and a circle,
triangle and a square on the other. It was originally devised by
Leonardo as a proposed recognition sign for the Order of Reason,
but it was never accepted. It is however infused with the vision
and drive of Leonardo to some extent; by meditating on it or by
wearing it the owner will get flashes of inspiration of all
kinds. The only problem is that the user will get new ideas
faster than he can finish the previous ones, so that he will be
constantly jumping from project to project. 

[ Essentially this talisman gives the mage several extra Dream
dice, which randomly shift between various abilities such as
expression, enigmas, occult, science, technology or medicine. ]


IBM 666 ****

This is a black laptop, so slickly designed that most Virtual
Adepts will drool when they see it. It is also much heavier than
expected, and has an unfortunate tendency to bump into things or
the bearer with its surprisingly sharp corners. It only runs DOS
v2.0 beta, the screen seems to induce headaches very quickly and
users soon become irritated and fatigued (since it actually
drains them of Quintessence for its functioning). It is in fact a
complete nightmare to own, especially since the owner always
feels an urge to use it despite its drawbacks. 

The IBM 666 was originally devised (according to colourful
rumours) by a Syndicate businessman from IBM who accidentally
wound up in Hell when he was dreaming. Exactly why he created it
nobody knows, perhaps as a tool to trap Virtual Adepts, but
others suggest that he was actually a Nephandi adsinistratus
seeking to tempt others. A mage working via the computer has
access to Nephandi magick, including such nasty things as
Qlippothic spheres and the summoning of demons. It is also
strangely addictive, and after a while the user begins to feel
bad when using other computers... 

[This artefact is quite nasty. Essentially it uses a Mind 2
effect to addict people to it and make them allergic to other
computers, Prime 4 to drain other patterns of Quintessence, and
gives the user full access to Nephandi magick. It isn't actively
malignant, but the user will quickly become exposed to dark
influences if he uses its powers]. 


Gnagg Booster 45 ****

Built by Bonk Business Inc. in 1948, the Gnagg Booster is still
found in many of the more esoteric laboratories around the world.
It looks somewhat like a generator from the forties, with a green
safety cover, lots of connectors for various peripherals (today
the connector standards have changed, so it is hard to find
suitable plugs) and on one end a conical shaft covered with a
safety mesh. It runs on three small wheels, making it easy to
move despite its heaviness. 

It is a general waveconverter, able to transform energy at one
frequency to another over a very wide range (8 Hz - 10^50 Hz,
according to the manual). For example, it can boost sound into
light, turn radio waves into electricity or downgrade gamma rays
into gravity waves. One version, the "Freakwave Transmuter", is
able to transform mental energies into useful power or vice
versa. 

[ This device can convert any force to any other force, as long
as it can be connected to it. A Matter 3/Forces 4 effect makes it
able to withstand even extreme loads without breaking. With the
Freakwave Transmuter unit, it can also convert mental processes
into energy and vice versa.]



-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




