From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Tue Aug  1 19:43:32 1995
Date: Tue, 1 Aug 1995 19:43:30 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
To: wod-l <wod-l@netcom.com>
Subject: Towards a Taxonomy of the Pure Ones
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.91N2.950801194138.17575C-100000@hemul.nada.kth.se>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8BIT
Status: O
X-Status: 

Towards a Taxonomy of the Pure Ones

- Parallels within Gnosticism, Graeco-Roman Mythology and Hermeticism. 

Talk given by Frater IAM, Magister Templi of the Ordo Rosae Crucis at the
Vernal Equinox meeting of Lux Aeterna 1994. 

Fratres et Sorores, as we all know, the fundamental archetype of the
universe as coming into being through the fragmentation and specialisation
of Undifferentiated reality, also known as the One, is widely spread
throughout mankind and in many different forms:  the Big Bang, the
Sundering of the Celestial Chorus, the Gnostic Fall, the Evolutionary
Ontology of Hallbaum, the cosmogony of Heisod and the creation story in
Genesis. It is also widely accepted among enlightened scholars that in
this evolution a number of entities, fragments of the One, usually called
the Pure Ones, developed and either fragmented further or were stabilised
in the form of Celestines and Uthras, which then were gradually developed
and defined by the beliefs of mankind. In this talk I will discuss what we
know about how the Pure Ones descended into definition. 

As we all know, the Gnostics claim that the origin of the Sundering was
that the entity known as Ialdabaoth identified itself as separate from the
One, as described in the Book of Eight Aeons.  Through this action, the
original purity and balance was disrupted, and under the influence of
Ialdabaoth (also called the Demiurge) the One divided into the various
Pure Ones, also known as the Aeons among the Gnostics. Ialdabaoth could
also be identified with Uranus in Greek Mythology, who was born from Gaia
(the other part of the One, who had emerged from Chaos, the original state
of perfection), and then mated with her to produce the rest of creation. 

Exactly what happened with Ialdabaoth is uncertain, according to the
Gnostics he was the God of the Old Testament, but other sources such as De
Omnipotentia by Damien Rochaurd and Liber Lolligonis claim It choose to
remain separate from all of creation, becoming Its own reality. In Greek
Myth Uranus was defeated and banished by his children after he had
imprisoned them, and his son Chronos castrated him, which could mean he
lost his ability to force more creation, and then banished Uranus into the
Outer Darkness. 

According to Master Kwan-Ho of the Tower of Perfect Solitude at Tanitaweng
Shan, the Tao was set in motion by the work of Ialdabaoth (although he did
not acknowledge any name to this entity), and Ialdabaoth became the Motion
of All instead of the Perfection of Tao. At the opposite extreme is Bishop
Gordon Webster-Hall of the Trinity Sanctuary in London, who on no
uncertain terms identified Ialdabaoth with Satan. According to his view,
the ultimate goal of Ialdabaoth/Satan is to corrupt and destroy all of
creation, thus ensuring that it will never be able to rise back to God. 

Regardless of the ultimate fate and goal of Ialdabaoth, it is beyond any
doubt that this entity represents the most powerful, and in its own
twisted way, maybe the most original shard of the One. During the
subsequent Sundering the other Pure Ones emerged affected by its influence
and were gradually tainted with material existence. 

According to the Book of the Eight Aeons, and also supported by Greek
myth, Chronos was Ialdabaoth/Uranus eldest son and eventual nemesis.
Chronos, also known as Saturn and Father Time, seems to be the
personification of the Dark Father archetype. His brothers and sisters
were known as the Titans, and could perhaps be seen as the first
generation of Pure Ones or the primal forces, still struggling with each
other and the subsequent generations of creation. It seems that they were
much less defined than Chronos, except for Chronos brother Okeanos, the
infinite sea. Okeanos could be identified with the Deep Umbra and the
concept of infinity/eternity, but very little is know about him except
that he seems to be allied with Uranus. 

The next aeon, usually called the Aeon of Jupiter or Zeus, was created
from Chronos and rebelled against it. The Greek Myth tells us that Chronos
feared that his children would one day rebel as he had rebelled against
his father, so he ate them. This could correspond to a will to stop the
descent into matter by closing himself into an Ouroboros, the snake biting
its own tail and incidentally also a symbol for the death/rebirth so
intimately linked with Time. But this was broken by the stone Abadir (also
called Baetylus) given to him by Rhea (who could in fact have been
Ialdabaoth!), which he devoured instead of his son, who eventually
defeated him. It is interesting to speculate if this stone is not the
original archetype of the Holy Grail (which has been alternately described
as a cup, a stone and a light by different mystics) or the Philosophers
Stone, which has the ability to open up the Ouroboros or close it. 

According to some myths, after his banishing Chronos sought to return to
reality but was unable to deal with the new situation.  Instead Time
became the great destroyer, similar to the black holes of contemporary
astrophysics, and developed into Oblivion. This could in some sense be
seen as the final result of the snake eating its own tail and vanishing
completely. 

The subsequent development of the Aeons seems to have progressed much more
smoothly, possibly because the introduction of Abadir. The Aeon of Mars
seems to be a natural development from the struggles between time and
space (Chronos and Jupiter), it represents conflict and organisation on
all levels, especially the sphere of Entropy. It is very interesting to
analyse this Aeon in conjunction with a study of the beliefs of the
Moon-Beasts (also known as lycanthropes or more commonly, werewolves).
According to the songs sung by the Tjetjersko-shamans of the Anabar river
(and separately supported by the story fragments recorded in Liber
Noctuabundi by Andreas Arenamontanus), these beings believe all of
creation is controlled by three forces, the Weaver, the Wild and the Worm.
The Weaver is the force responsible for creation, definition and progress,
the Wild represents change and randomness, and the Worm is responsible for
decay and the closing of the cycle. 

This could correspond to a subsequent division of the Aeon of Mars/Entropy
into a force of ordering and evolution (the Weaver), a force of decay and
entropy in the common sense (the Worm) and a force of randomness and
turbulence (the Wild). This kind of trinary division seems to be very
common among the Pure Ones. Obviously the lycanthropes regard the ordering
of existence as the fundamental level, and do not acknowledge the
existence of higher planes. It is worth noting that this division also
mirrors the Hindu pantheon: Brahma as the Creator, Vishnu as the Preserver
and Shiva as the Destroyer and the Indo-European glyph of the Triune
Goddess. 

Often seen as opposed to the Aeon of Mars is the Aeon of Venus, which is
alternately described as the Aeon of Life (the Book of the Eight Aeons) or
emotion (its identification as Netzach in the Cabala).  Due to the complex
intertwining of the two concepts, one could in fact accept it as both
(this is the view taken by Grace Blackwine of the Servants of the Oak, who
identifies Venus with the primal force of Life and Love itself). It is
interesting to note that in Greek myth Aphrodite was described as emerging
from the sea after the genitals of Uranus had been cast therein, maybe
signifying her as the ²child² of Ialdabaoth/the Deep Umbra. The meaning of
this is very unclear. 

Apparently this aeon soon fragmented into two major incarnations, on one
hand the life-giving mother Magna Mater (also worshipped as Cybele) and
the dynamic, highly emotional Inanna, goddess of love and war. The Great
Mother seems to have fused with the various harvest goddesses (like
Demeter) and earth goddesses, apparently partially returning to the more
undifferentiated state she was forced out from. However, Inanna seems to
have quickly developed into a highly individualised being, taking the
names Ishtar, Ashtoreth, Aphrodite and Erzulie among others. Her nature
seems to be a mixture of intense passion, love and hate, sensuality and
asceticism. Note the similarity with Shiva/Durga. 

The Aeon of Mercury is interesting, since it is the Aeon where
consciousness and thought appears. Just as the planet and metal are
mirroring and volatile, it seems fairly certain that it immediately
divided into a number of lesser entities mirroring all other Pure Ones,
which in turn divided, creating a cascade eventually ending in everyday
concepts. The structure of language, the chimerae and the astral realms
were all created by this process, ²locking reality behind a wall of iron
words² as Maurice Bronner of wrote in his poem ²Poisons of the Brain². The
concepts of mind seems to be particularly prevalent in the High Umbra we
traverse, possibly because they are most strongly linked to communication
and travel. 

Mercury is also called the Morningstar, and thus linked to Lucifer the
Lightbringer. It is possible that Lucifer (who has many similarities with
Prometheus and might be the same) is one of the remaining shards of
Mercury, bent on bringing the knowledge of the Pure Ones down into the
material world, in direct defiance of the Demiurge. This would also fit in
with Hermes as the trickster, mirrored in Coyote, Loki and many other
deities. The imprisonment of Lucifer, Prometheus and Loki could be a
representation of how mind became trapped in matter by Ialdabaoth to
prevent it from escaping. 

The Aeon of the Moon seems to have been profoundly unstable, as evidenced
in the waxing and waning of its face. According to widespread
Indo-European legend, she is three goddesses in one:  the maid, the mother
and the crone. The similarities with the norns of Norse mythology and the
fates of Greek Mythology need no further elaboration, and the same goes
for the three mysterious ladies who serve the Queen of Night in ²The Magic
Flute² by Mozart.  The Crone is often identified with Hecate, the Mother
with Isis and the Maiden with Diana. These beings are the first of the
Pure Ones which have any effects on individuals; The Aeons down to Mars
dealt with the large scale laws of reality, Venus and Mercury deals with
the human mind but not the individual. But the Goddess exists on a
personal level, they make, weave and cut the threads of Fate, they control
the waxing and waning of nature, they rule spirits and the beings of the
night (note the traditional connection to lycantrophes). 

But the Moon has also spatial connotations. The Sphere of the Moon
delimited the higher, perfect realms from the fallen world of matter in
medieval and classic astronomy. It represents a *limes* in the ascent of
spirit while astrologically ruling material travel. To the Cabalists this
was Yesod, the Foundation of Reality, the subconscious of the world. Some
scholars have identified it with the Near Umbra (or Yetziratic plane in
the Cabala), although more properly the Moon should be identified with the
Gauntlet, the Near Umbra and the Horizon as a unity in accordance to its
tripartite properties. This neatly explains the variability of the
strength and activity of the barriers holding us in. But on a higher
plane, it also controls the inconstancy and indetermination of the
material world. 

The Sun is very different among the Pure Ones, and might be called the
purest. According to the Book of Eight Aeons it was created by the
fragmenting One to lead its fragment back together again, a visible
manifestation of unity and power. However, Master Kwan- Ho points out that
it could also be seen as an intense force of Yang;  as the Monad was
divided, the Yin part naturally descended and formed the world, while the
Yang part rose according to its nature and formed the sun, as a kind of
metaphysical counterweight. In this view, it is the remaining purity of
the One which formed a secondary One (with tremendously reduced power).
Bishop Webster-Hall has repeatedly condemned this view as heliolatry. A
third view is that the Sun and Moon are equal and balanced, the Queen of
Night and the King of Day (this is evidenced in Mozart). 

Whatever the exact details, most scholars who have studied this agree that
the Sun is the Golden King of the planets, the bringer of order and
stability. It is a symbol for another kind of rulership than the fierce
(but jovial) power of Jupiter, it is the divine king rather than the
worldly king (Rex Dei versus Rex Mundi). It is also rather clear that it
has not lost its unity in the same way as the other Aeons and Celestines,
due to its unitary nature it is still itself, regardless of what name it
is worshipped under. 

Finally we reach the sphere of Terra, Malkuth, the material world.  As we
have seen, it appears probable that the Fall proceeded in stages, as more
and more of the infinite essence of the One was broken up into Aeons which
in turn fragmented (or in some cases returned to the One). In Greek
mythology this could correspond to the unbroken motherhood of Gaia, who
was present from the beginning and continued to be the mother of both man,
beast, plant and monster. It was not until the last stage the inner core
divided (and some of my Gnostic correspondents claim it never truly
fragmented, the Avatar of the One exists in the sun or hidden inside the
material world). The formation of the material world appears by all
accounts to have been a very dramatic event, as the unbalanced forces
ripped apart pure existence and gave it form and structure. 

It appears that Gaia, the Earth Mother, can in part be identified with the
Gnostic Sophia, the hidden wisdom of God. By continual fragmentation a
plenitude of matter, energy, plants and animals were brought forth. The
origin of the Avatar Families may be traced to this late phase, as
Bergerson do in his works, but I disagree with him. If one looks at the
division into the Dianoia/Res classes, one immediately realises that the
latter class is tainted with materiality, while the Dianoia group must
have originated on a higher level, most probably during the fragmentation
of Mercury.  This opens up an intriguing question: are there other Avatar
families linked to the earlier or latter stages? We have so far never
encountered such a family, but they might exist on some level of reality. 

To conclude this talk, let me recapitulate the essentials. There are deep
symbolic similarities between what is known about the creation of the
world, the Gnostic vision and Greek mythology (with its links to
Indo-European or lycantropic mythology). In fact, if one is to believe the
story about Caine described in Liber Noctuabundi, it even mirrors the
myths of the Undead. This process seems to have proceeded in stages,
wherein a part of the One was defined and individualised, usually followed
by a descent into manifestation. This only ended when all of the One had
been defined or manifested, into the complex hierarchy of Aeons,
Celestines, Uthras, Deities, Avatars, Umbrood and realities we see.  Thus
we can see the outlines of a great taxonomy of all of existence, leading
back to the purity of the One, with species and races of concepts. The
implications of this are staggering. 




-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




