From owner-wod-l@netcom.com  Fri Jun 21 13:26:49 1996
Received: from mail6.netcom.com (root@mail6.netcom.com [192.100.81.142])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id NAA23245 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Fri, 21 Jun 1996 13:26:46 +0200
Received: (from daemon@localhost) by mail6.netcom.com (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id UAA20879; Sun, 16 Jun 1996 20:07:08 -0700
Received: from mail.iglou.com (relay.iglou.com [192.107.41.5]) by mail6 (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id UAA20862; Sun, 16 Jun 1996 20:07:03 -0700
Received: from iglou.com [root@192.107.41.3] by mail.iglou.com (8.7.3/8.6.12)  with smtp id m0uVUeb-00035wC; Sun, 16 Jun 96 23:07 EDT
Date: Sun, 16 Jun 1996 23:06:57 -0400 (EDT)
From: Mark Kinney <alberich@iglou.com>
X-Sender: alberich@iglou
To: wod-l@netcom.com
Subject: FICTION: Ties That Bind
Message-ID: <Pine.GSO.3.93.960616230311.6601A-100000@iglou>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Sender: owner-wod-l@netcom.com
Precedence: list
Reply-To: wod-l@netcom.com
Status: RO
X-Status: 

Well, I'm burning out on Closing the Circle at the moment... I *will*
finish it, but in the meantime for your approval is a story I wrote a year
or so ago and forgot about until I found it again while cleaning out files
from old disks.  I'm not entirely happy with it, so any comments anyone
would like to give to improve it are welcome (or even if I should bother
:-).  It isn't on the web site yet, but I'm sure it'll go there
eventually.


TIES THAT BIND

by Mark Kinney	

	Elizabeth opened the door to reveal a tall, 
thin, black-haired figure, dressed simply in beige 
slacks and a black dress shirt, with an ornate 
silver medallion hung from a cord around her neck.
	"You're Ms. Whitlock?" Elizabeth asked 
uncertainly.
	The woman before her simply nodded.  
Elizabeth invited her inside, and she immediately 
got to the point.  "What is wrong with your son, 
Mrs. Larson?"
	Elizabeth sat down on a large plain brown 
couch, and her guest took a nearby chair.  
Elizabeth clasped her hands in front of her face, 
remembering all that had happened recently.
	"Well, Ms. Whitlock--"
	"Please, call me Barbara."
	Elizabeth nodded, then continued her story.  
"About three months ago, William became suicidal.  
He's tried to kill himself five times now, and I 
suspect he'll try again soon."
	Emotion nearly overcame her, and as Elizabeth 
struggled to regain her composure, she felt 
Barbara's hand on her shoulder.  "Be calm, 
Elizabeth," Barbara said, and a peace came over 
Elizabeth's mind.  "Continue, now."
	"I've taken him to therapists, they say that 
although he has a few problems, he doesn't seem 
suicidal to them.  I've taken him to doctors, 
thinking it might be a chemical problem or 
something like that, but there's nothing wrong.  I 
don't know what happened to him.  He's led a good 
life, had a lot of good fortune, and has never 
done anything bad to anyone.  My uncle, Leonard, 
was here a week ago... he mentioned some 'circle' 
he belonged to sometimes... he observed the 
situation for a few days, and said he would have 
help sent to us."
	Barbara nodded, replying, "Indeed, Leonard 
Correll is a respected member of our organization.  
He should perhaps not have spoken about us to you, 
but he has helped us many times in the past, and 
my elders decided to lend aid in his family's 
need."
	"Your elders?"
	"I am an apprentice, you might say, but they 
deemed me capable of handling the situation.  Was 
there any indication at all of some problem 
beforehand?"
	"No, nothing.  If anything, I'd say he was 
extraordinarily lucky."
	"How so?"
	"Things seemed to come to him.  When Uncle 
Leonard noticed this before, he simply said 
something like, 'William's not doing it,' or 
whatever.  I never understood that, and he would 
never explain."
	"That is understandable.  May I see you son?"
	Elizabeth led Barbara upstairs to a room in 
one of the back corners of the house.  The walls 
were covered in posters of rock stars and favorite 
actresses, remnants of a teenage existence, the 
only thing betraying the true age of the occupant 
being the relative neatness of the rest of the 
room.  A stereo on a nearby bookshelf played light 
pop music, and the only light in the room came 
from a lamp on the desk.  On a bed lying against 
the back wall, a young red-haired man slept, 
oblivious to their presence.
	"How old is he?" Barbara asked.	
	"Twenty three," Elizabeth answered.
	Barbara walked over to the bed, pulled the 
chair from the desk, and sat down next to 
William's bed.  She placed her hand on his 
forehead, and seemed to enter a deep 
concentration.  This lasted for about a half-
minute, then Barbara looked over at William.  "No, 
this is not your time, is it," she said softly, 
then turned to Elizabeth.  "In order to properly 
do my work, I must ask that you leave me alone 
with him.  There could be serious repercussions 
otherwise."
	Elizabeth assented, adding, "If you need 
anything, I'll be downstairs."  She left, pulling 
the door closed behind her.  Barbara couldn't help 
thinking that her businesslike handling of the 
situation had put Elizabeth off somewhat, but she 
could not be concerned with sparkling impressions 
at a time like this.
	Barbara turned her attention back to William, 
and began looking around the room, seeking out the 
presence that Leonard had believed was the source 
of their trouble.  Before long, she found it -- an 
emanation from near William's bed, strongly linked 
to him.  Barbara probed at the connection -- it 
was strong indeed, spanning not only space and 
time, Barbara knew, but also the line between life 
and death.
	She was going to have to go into the spirit 
world, she decided, and face whatever this was on 
its ground.  She always found entering the 
Shadowlands distasteful; although her mentors 
seemed to relish the experience, she did not like 
the decay that everything there presented.  She 
had watched her father waste away from cancer 
years before this, just before Justin found her 
and adopted her into the Circle, before her 
Awakening.  She couldn't stand the slow death 
everpresent in the shadow world, but she would 
have to go nonetheless, to insure that such a 
thing did not happen to William as well.
	She stood, holding out her arms, her eyes 
closed, feeling the quintessence flow through her, 
the power growing in her like the ocean coming in 
at high tide.  She pierced the barrier easily 
enough, far easier than she ever had before; 
probably because of the link, she thought.
	Barbara opened her eyes.  She saw the room 
still around her, but now the walls were 
crumbling, shreds of poster still hanging from 
some.  William could be seen as well, still 
sleeping in his now collapsed bed, and beside him 
was the shocked image of a young blond woman, 
markings covering her face, the rest of her form 
hidden in shrouds.
	"You're not supposed to be here," she said.
	"Who are you?" Barbara asked.
	The shrouded figure looked over at William, 
then back at Barbara with black-irised eyes.  
"You're not going to take him," she said.  "You 
don't frighten me, death mage.  I'll protect him."
	"I'm not after him.  I want to know what's 
going on.  Who are you?"
	The spirit considered this, then relented, 
allowing its eyes to resume their original blue 
tint.  "My name in the living world was Jennifer 
Keegan.  I went to school with William."
	"What happened to you?"
	Jennifer looked down at the floor.  "I 
thought no one cared.  I... I..."
	Barbara closed her eyes, shaking her head.  
"It's okay, Jennifer," she said, looking back to 
the spirit form.  "Go on."
	"William and I were sort of friends, at least 
as much as the crowd would let me.  Everyone put 
him down, and I went along with it sometimes.  I 
even helped play a big joke on him once.  
Eventually I stopped hearing from him.  Everyone 
else left too, eventually."  Barbara noticed a 
tear rolling down Jennifer's cheek.  "I'd never 
been that alone before.  It hurt so much..."  The 
tears could no longer be checked, and Barbara 
found herself holding Jennifer's ghostly form, 
comforting her.
	"What happened next?  Why are you staying 
here with him?"
	"When I came over, I found I couldn't go any 
further.  I found out that what feelings I did 
have for him bound me to him.  That's how I found 
out..."
	"What?"
	"He still cared.  No matter how badly I 
treated him, even if it did hurt him, he cared.  I 
figured that I was supposed to watch over him to 
atone for whatever I had done."
	"How long ago was this?"
	"About a year and a half I think... I'm not even sure anymore."
	Barbara nodded.  "Go on."
	"And now he must join us."  Jennifer's tone 
of voice changed, and the sobbing form now sat 
straight up, as solid as the earth and colder than 
the Alaskan tundra Barbara would wander around as 
a child.  Barbara backed away from the figure, 
whose form was changing.  Its hair gained a red 
tinge, the eyes turned a solid black; its head 
hung at an unnatural angle, with a noose around 
its broken neck.  The figure moved toward Barbara.  
"You will not take him from us," it said.  "He is 
ours."
	Barbara gestured, and a force held the 
specter back as it advanced, claws outstretched, 
reaching for Barbara's neck--
	Suddenly, it was once again the form that 
Barbara originally encountered.  Jennifer 
collapsed to the ground, a look of terror on her 
face, she held her head in her hands, screaming 
"Not again, please!"
	"Jennifer, what's wrong?" Barbara asked.
	"I can't... fight it much longer."
	"What?"
	"Trying to... kill... protect..." Jennifer 
strained to get every word out against the 
onslaught of the dark force making itself apparent 
as parts of the darker image came and went.  She 
writhed under its influence, struggling to keep it 
from emerging.
	Barbara realized what has happening.  Justin 
had told her little of wraiths, but she was aware 
of the Shadow, a corrupting force born of their 
weaknesses in life.  In this case, it drove 
Jennifer's affection into possessiveness, her 
desire to watch over him and protect him mutated 
into its ultimate extreme, the wish to bring him 
over.
	This was the cause of it all, She realized.
	Barbara drew what quintessence she could from 
her surroundings in this plane, and Jennifer 
calmed down, her dark side subsiding.  Jennifer 
stayed on the ground, crying as Barbara knelt down 
beside her.
	"Can you fight it?" Barbara asked.
	"It started about three months ago... I've 
tried to fight but it's so hard... Can you help 
me?"
	"Even this spell is merely a temporary 
measure.  My ways do not rule here.  There is only 
one way I can truly help."
	"How?"
	"You must move on to your final destiny.  I 
can free you from him, and you must then leave 
him."
	"No... I can't just leave..."
	"If you don't, your own darkness will 
overwhelm him, and you will not only have killed 
yourself, you will have killed him too.  Is that 
what you want?"
	Jennifer composed herself, and sat up, 
leaning against the nearby wall.  "No," she said.  
"Breaking the bond... it won't make me forget, 
will it?"
	"What do you mean?"
	"Will I remember I loved him?"
	Barbara saw the worry in her eyes, but 
couldn't give her the honest answer.  "I don't 
know."
	Jennifer nodded.  "Do it."
	Barbara closed her eyes and called the power 
back to her.  She saw the bond tying Jennifer to 
the living world; it was the only thing that kept 
the wraith here.  She tried to cut it, but the 
power of the bond was strong.  Still, Barbara 
struggled with it, using her power to cut at the 
connection like a knife, but the effect was like 
using a butter knife on a frozen sausage; it could 
be cut, but it was long, hard work.
	Finally, the connection severed.  Barbara was 
jarred out of her trance and into consciousness by 
the explosive effect.  As she watched Jennifer, 
again struggling with the darkness and fading from 
view, she realized that the efforts had not had 
the effect she had hoped for.  The Shadow would 
not take Jennifer, but she would not celebrate any 
liberation; she would not exist long enough for 
that.
	Jennifer realized this too, as in her moments 
of dominance she at first looked horrified, but as 
her disintegration progressed, she became calm, 
and in her final moment in control, before fading 
from view, mouthed two words to Barbara and then 
vanished into the void.
	"Thank you."
	Barbara sat back against the bed, her mind 
reeling from the experience.  She tried to calm 
herself, but could not help wondering if she 
really deserved Jennifer's thanks.  Maybe it was 
better than letting Jennifer devolve into a 
twisted specter from the loving being she used to 
be, but Barbara couldn't help but think it was all 
a waste.

	Barbara awoke in the living world, not 
knowing how long she had been out.  The room was 
as she had left it, except that William, instead 
of sleeping calmly as he had before, had tossed 
and turned, his body embraced by the mass of 
twisted linens.
	She stood up and looked over William, 
thinking about what Jennifer had said.  "I'm 
sorry," she whispered, allowing herself a few 
tears.  She wiped them away, regained her 
composure and proceeded back downstairs.
	Elizabeth met her at the bottom of the 
stairs.  "Well?" she asked.
	"It should be okay now.  I have... removed 
the problem."
	"Thank you," Elizabeth said gratefully.  "I, 
uh, don't have much money--"
	"We ask no payment; don't concern yourself 
with it."
	"Thank you."
	Barbara walked down the path to the street, 
and as she opened her car door, she turned back 
toward the house.  She quickly weighed the options 
in her mind, and decided she owed Jennifer at 
least that much.
	Barbara turned back toward the house and 
yelled back, "Mrs. Larson?"
	Elizabeth had nearly shut the door when she 
heard Barbara  calling out to her.  She opened the 
door again and looked out.
	"What is it?" she asked.
	"There is one personal favor I would ask of 
you."
	"What's that?"
	"When William wakes up, tell him to remember 
that Jennifer loved him."
	"Jennifer?  But she--"
	"I know.  Will you tell him?"
	Elizabeth nodded, understanding.  "I will."




Mark Kinney | alberich@iglou.com | http://www.iglou.com/nations/
Publisher/Editor, League of Nations postal Diplomacy zine (league.html)
"You're all nekkid!"  "I still have an armor jacket" -- from a recent
			Shadowrun session I participated in


