Timepower, 2nd rev. ed.

Greetings once more electrotemporalists,

In order to derive energy from time, two basic approaches need to be
considered. These are based on the nature of time, so first a brief recap
is in order:

Just as time is pushing us foward down the time stream, so to does time
move through patterns. The degree to which time moves through a pattern is
based upon what I refer to as temporal opaqueness. As time moves through a
pattern it enables change to take place within that pattern. The total
temporal velocity (tv) of all patterns is equal to the patterns rate of
movement down the time stream plus the rate at which time moves through the
pattern itself (1/temporal opaqueness). tv is allways constant.
example: Marble has a high temporal opaqueness, as a result it has little
time moving through its pattern and is projected rapidly down the
timestream. From our perceptions marble does not appear to change much and
occupies quite a long length of the time stream. In contrast a Mayfly has a
low temporal opaqueness, so experiences rapid change and a short age.
Note: Rank 1 effects  are caused by mages being sensitive to the rate of
flow of time through their own patterns. Rank 2 effects expand a mages
perceptions into the past and future. Most rank 3 time effects are produced
by altering a pattern's temporal opaqueness. Rank 4 effects are produced by
making things completely temporally opaque. The rank 5 effect of stepping
out of the time stream is achieved by isolating the mages time stream from
the rest of reality and becoming temporally transparent. The rank 5 effect
of travelling into the future is done by becoming completely temporally
opaque and isolating the mage's time stream- rasing the opaqueness
increases your rate of movement down the timestream, and you isolate your
stream so that you are not stuck as active as a rock while waiting to get
into the future (the distance down the time stream that your increase in
opaqueness caused).
     Should a mage choose to alter the opaqueness of time through
polarisation, an interesting effect can be achieved through building an
inter(chrono)ferometer: use a time-beamsplitter to divide a timestream into
two substreams, then recombine the streams slightly out-of-sync. The result
is a stream with areas of higher and lower intensity. This can be seen
occuring naturally, Friday afternoons having more time, so seeming to last
longer, weekends the reverse.

Energy from time, 2 means:
a) Drawing power from the stream as per a waterwheel.
       Possible but not recommended- The part of the system in the time
stream should consist of material of a high temporal opaqueness,  this
supplies the resistance to the timestream that the motor section (in
extradimensional space) needs to generate power. For the part of the system
in the time stream I would suggest a large stone pyramid. You then
rebroadcast the energy back into the timestream. The disadvantage, in
addition to really odd time effects around your pyramid, is that the system
out-side of the time stream needs to lie far beyond the dreamshell in the
region where the Zigg'raugglurr dwell. As this methods causes weakpoints in
the gauntlet as well as thedreamshell, it should only be used with extreme
caution (Note: NEVER backfire a summoning on top of a pyramid).
       By using a pyramid to channel time directly into extradimensional
space, power can be generated through a second (no pun intended) effect.
The channelling of time creates an area of very low temporal energy at the
pyramids heart (that is what actually happens when pyramids are used to
preserve food or corpses from decay). To generate power from time you need
to create a high potential difference and exploit the flow of temporal
energy from one object to another. To generate serious power it would be
possible in theory to build a particle accelerator within a pyramid and
generate mu-mesons or similar ultra-short-lived subatomic particles.  Of
course in addition to massive temporal instability, this method has the
same problems as above.

>b) Manipulation of temporal opaqueness.
While decreasing temporal opaqueness on static objects simply increases the
speed at which entropy works (as anyone who has used accelerate time plus
entropy effects will attest).  Modern 'efficient' wood burners are an
example of this within static reality.
        If the opaqueness of the kinetic energy of a system in motion is
decreased, while the frictional forces are made highly opaque, the amount
of motion that the system produces will increase.
This method has been popular with Etherians for many years. The perpetual
motion style machines that go on producing energy with no obvious means of
power and a mysterious black box, which doesn't seem to do anything at
their center. The black box decreases the temporal opaqueness of the
kinetic energy in the system to near zero.
        Be warned should you attempt to publicise this effect the
Technocacy will react the same way to you as they have to those who tried
to establish such paradigms in the past.

Good Luck again,
Dr. Krooonos

David Hood
david.hood@stonebow.otago.ac.nz



