From nv91-asa@seine.nada.kth.se Mon Aug  8 19:05:56 1994
Date: Mon, 8 Aug 1994 16:46:34 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@seine.nada.kth.se>
Subject: The Progenitor Timetable
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9408081634.D11437-0100000@seine.nada.kth.se>

I just picked up a book this week, and found what seems to be the
Progenitor Timetable for when they are going to release their methods to
the public. Its "Our Medical Future" by Jeffrey A. Fisher, M.D. (ISBN
0-671-73845-3). It contains a lot of Progenitor propaganda, and describes
the wonderful new world of modern medicine. I think the Traditions ought
to be afrid, very afraid. Some tidbits from the timetable (quoted
directly, my comments in brackets): 


1995:

	Blood test for detecting predisposition for Alcoholism. Based on
	alcoholism genes, test opens door to first specific biochemical
	prevention and treatment. 


1996:

	Babies born without brains approved as organ donors. Since these
	children, called anencephalic infants, always die within a few
	weeks, it allows for some good to come from a tragic situation. 


1997:

	Impotence eliminated for good. Injection of vascular factors
	(endothelins) provide successful treatment. 

	Long standing speed barrier broken. First sub 3:40 mile incredible
	human performance achievement. 

	The end of dentures. New titanium implants and better computer
	design allow for permanent replacement of teeth. 

	Parkinsons disease controllable with genetic engineering. 
	Laboratory grown brain cells manipulated to produce dopamine, the
	chemical Parkinson's patient lack, and then transplanted into the
	brain. 

	Transplantation from an Unlikely source. Use of animal organs,
	called xenografts, made possible by the new antirejection drugs
	that allow for interspecies organ sharing. 


1998:

	Testing finds it dangerous to society, themselves, for some people
	to work at night. Lack of adaptability of their biological clocks
	to light treatments brands them "chronobiologically unemployable".
	[At night reality becomes more fluid and unstable, since most
	sleepers are asleep.  This way dangerous people who might react
	unfavorably to this (like Awaken or see something) are kept away.]


2001:

	A shocking new source of organs for transplantation. Some parents
	use advanced reproductive techniques to "create" anencephalic
	infants.  Future breakthroughs will make this only a temporary
	solution. 


2002:

	No more wrinkles. Artificial skin, previously used for burn
	patients, improved and now indistinguishable from natural. Used
	for cosmetic purposes. 

	Alcoholism biochemically treatable at last. Designer substances
	called "brain vitamins" correct abnormal genes, individualize
	treatment. 

	Euthanasia legalized. Political pressure from aging baby-boomers
	forces decision [A victory for the Euthanatos too!]


2004:

	Mother-child bonding hormone clarified. Identification of specific
	part of oxytocin molecule opens door for amazing parental options. 

	Predisposition to all addictions determined. Abnormal
	"pleasure-seeking" genes identified in cocaine, heroin, nicotine
	addiction, obesity. Specific diagnostic techniques and treatments
	soon available. 

	Heart transplants replaced with something better. Totally
	implantable artificial hearts work perfectly, available
	over-the-counter. 


2005:

	Baldness treated with genetic therapy. The ultimate treatment,
	manipulates gene that regulates baldness enzyme. 

	Aging slowed by new drug. Inhibits age-related uncoiling of DNA in
	cell. Predicted to increase life-span. 


2006:

	Surrogate parenting now a definable career for many women. Live
	in "surrogate spas" while pregnant; diet, lifestyle carefully
	controlled. 


2007:

	Drug addiction conquered, smokeless society finally achieved. 
	Designer drugs correct abnormal genes, eliminate desire. 


2008:

	Buying body parts off the shelf. Totally implantable artificial
	kidneys, livers, pancreases, purchased over-the-counter and coated
	with the recipients genetic code. 


2009:

	At last! Colds can be prevented. Polyvalent vaccine (against most
	common cold-causing viruses) prevents 80 percent of colds. Better
	antiviral drugs available for treatment, but short duration makes
	use impractical. 

	First artificial brain introduced. Doesn't duplicate all
	functions, just memory. More elaborate brains predicted. 

	Science fact, not fiction. First human successfully cloned! 
	Purpose is for repository of organs for transplantation, but
	possible to use to indefinitely extend life. 

	Genes that determine abilities and talents identified. Leaves door
	open for designer babies. 


2010:

	Creating "supernormal" memories. Drugs used previously for
	Alzenheimer's, normal elderly, now used on teenagers and adults. 
	Controversial enchancement therapy. 


2012:

	Artificial limbs reach perfection. Look and function like natural
	arms and legs- Combine with artificial nerves to restore normality
	to trauma victims. 

	Breakthrough in artificial organs. Eyes and ears, look real,
	function even better than natural sensory organs. 


2014:

	Parents can now create designer children before, after birth. 
	Genetic therapy now available to manipulate genes for abilities,
	intelligence in preembryos as part of in vitro fertilization, or
	gene-altering drugs can be given after birth. 


2015:

	Complete biochemical control over mental processes now possible. 
	Safe substances to enchance creativity, instill confidence,
	selectively enchance or blunt all emotions introduced. 

	The ultimate separation of sex and reproduction. Introduction of
	the artificial placenta, combined with in vitro fertilization,
	allows for reproduction from conception to birth completely
	outside human body. 


2020:

	Incidence of Alzenheimers disease decreased by 95%. 

	Incidence of all Cancer decreased by 80%; death rate decreased by
	90%. 


2025:

	Achieving immortality? Cloning technology refined and cheap enough
	to be used routinely for extra body parts for everyone. Replace
	worn out with new version. 

	Average Life expectancy at birth 100 years. 


2030:

	Coronary disease, cancer effectively wiped out. Cases so rare now
	newsworthy. Incidence, death rate down 99%. 

	Maximum human life span increased to 150 years. Scientists predict
	more manipulation of genetic clocks to increase life-span to
	greater than 200 years by 2050. 

The book ends with the sentences: "Our destiny is not doom. Our destiny 
is to make things better."

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




