From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Thu Dec  4 13:55:11 1995
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from mail6.netcom.com (root@mail6.netcom.com [192.100.81.142])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id NAA23673 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Mon, 4 Dec 1995 13:55:09 +0100
Received: by mail6.netcom.com (8.6.12/Netcom)
	id GAA19330; Sun, 3 Dec 1995 06:05:39 -0800
Received: from aimnet.com by mail6.netcom.com (8.6.12/Netcom)
	id GAA19317; Sun, 3 Dec 1995 06:05:36 -0800
Received: from [204.118.73.28] (dial-berk1-28.iway.aimnet.com [204.118.73.28]) by aimnet.com (8.6.12/8.6.12) with SMTP id GAA29960; Sun, 3 Dec 1995 06:07:05 -0800
Message-Id: <v01530500ac90aab9943e@[204.118.73.30]>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="iso-8859-1"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
Date: Sun, 3 Dec 1995 06:08:58 -0800
To: wod-l@netcom.com, <MAGE-L@ORACLE.WIZARDS.COM>, WRAITH-L@ORACLE.WIZARDS.COM
From: hyperion@aimnet.com (Thaddeus Howze)
Subject: The Topology of the Tellurian #1 (revision #1)
Cc: PWarlock@aimnet.com
Sender: owner-wod-l@netcom.com
Precedence: list
Reply-To: wod-l@netcom.com

THE TOPOLOGY OF THE TELLURIAN
Copyright of Thaddeus Howze, December 1995 © All Rights Reserved

This is the first revision of this posting based on the comments of other
writers on this list.

I began my writing of this document because I disliked and disagreed with
the World of Darkness premise that Earth was the center of the Tellurian
(Universe), and that its concerns were the concerns of an entire Universe.
Granted, that to the humans that live in this isolated part of the
Universe, it may seem to be all that there is. Instead, I have decided to
take the World of Darkness idea and apply a wider and more systematic
viewpoint. I did not place it from any internal view from the game, so that
Storytellers could isolate parts of it and revise it to serve their needs.
This is not meant to serve as the end all or be all of the Nature of the
Tellurian, more of a road map for drivers interested in where it may take
them.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
THE TOPOLOGY OF THE TELLURIAN revison 1.0
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
THE UNIVERSE
aka, The All, The Multiverse, Omniverse,
The Celestial Sphere, The Macrocosm.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
This is the sum total of all of creation. It is apparently limitless, and
without definite form, yet filled with shapes and substances, rules and
laws, ubiquitous and yet intangible, the Universe defies easy description;
filled with wonderous phenomena, awesome and terrible, most beyond the
reasoning capacities of mortal life forms.  In this ultimate arena are all
of the events, worlds and subworlds, realms and shadows, of the World of
Darkness, said to take place. Are there multiple realities, side by side,
just out of phase with each other, or are there multiple cosms linked
together in a bubblelike matrix each phasing in and out of contact with the
other? The True Nature of the Universe, defying such description, may, as
so often described in Quatum Mechanics, take the form that was expected by
the viewer. Meaning that the Universe itself may be the Ultimate Expression
of Magick; a place that takes the form that is expected of it.

THE GRAND DANCE
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The Grand Dance is a what the swirling of gravitic forces  and congealing
plasma combine together to call galaxies. In the Grand Dances throughout
the Universe, there are billions of Living Realms and even tens of billions
of Shadow or Shard Realms. The Grand Dance is the largest manifestation of
magick in the Universe, save the creation of the Universe itself. Within
the Dance are bound the Elemental Aspects of the Universe. These Elemental
Aspects (of which there are only known to be nine) combine to form the
Grand Dances (Galaxies, Living Realms and Shard Realms).

NINE PRIMAL
or ELEMENTAL ASPECTS
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
These are the known Elemental Aspects that combine to form Living Realms.
It is believed that there are others outside of the Living Realm of Gaia.
These others are not known by the magi of the Realm of Gaia, in general,
and may only be accessible by magi capable of Oracular level magic. Each of
these Aspects has been considered a form of Meta-magic that combines known
spheres of magic and are responsible for magics that are not related to any
particular sphere (such as Death being related to Shadowland Arcanos magic
and Transformation being related to Changeling-produced pathos magic).
There are some primary correlations that each Aspect shares with a sphere
of magic. As an example, Creation and Prime share correlations but Creation
is made up of more than just the Sphere called Prime. The spheres of Magick
are not able to completely explain the Aspects but magi continue to try and
find correlations between the two.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
BALANCE:
The Maintainer of the Universe
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Balance is the Aspect that deals with the continuation of the Universe in
general. Balance ensures that all forces work within their associations and
continue their function. Balance has no counterfource. This Aspect does
whatever is necessary to ensure that Balance is maintained. However,
Balance has been known to work slowly and over extended periods. The
Balance Aspect is often associated primarily with Time and is believed to
be the force that prevents temporal travel into the past to less than
Oracular-level magi.

Associated Magicks
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The Balance Aspect is known to also be associated with all the Nine Spheres
of Magick.
The Balance Aspect is known to be associated with all forms of Static Magic
(i.e. Hedge-Magick, Numina, Amulet, Celestial, and Alchemical Magic of the
Mummy and The Power of True Faith) and Arcane Magic (i.e. Magic such as the
Arcanos Magic of the Shadowlands and the Pathos Magic of the Changeling) as
well.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
CREATION/DESTRUCTION:
Two Primary Forces of the Universe
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
CREATION
The Beginningä
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
is a primary Aspect. It is the aspect that initiates the binding of the
other Aspect forces. It shares the stage as one of the most powerful
aspects with Destruction. The two of them form a Duality of Power called
Creation/Destruction. The Creation Aspect constantly creates new
combinations of interactions, forces and energies. Anything new can be
attributed to the Creation Aspect.

Associated Magicks
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Creation is most associated the sphere of Magick known as Prime but it also
has spheric associations with Life, Matter and Forces.

DESTRUCTION
The Endä
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Destruction is a primary Aspect and is one of the most powerful forces in
the Universe. Destruction is a constant of the Universe,  taking place
continuously at the atomic level and the galactic level. Destruction has
nothing directly to do with Death except that both can deal with the Ending
of a thing, person, place or entity. Death has more to do with end of Life.
Destruction is part of the Creation Aspect and completes its primal
balance. Destruction can be a means of Death but it is not a requirement.

Associated Magicks
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The Destruction Aspect can embody the spheres of Matter, Life, and Forces.


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
LIFE, DEATH, and ESSENCE:
The Circle of the Living and the Dead
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
LIFE
The Greatest Secret
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Life is a member of the Circle of the Living and the Dead. Life contributes
the force of Life energy to allow creatures to come into being that are
born, reproduce, and die. The Life Aspect is twined tightly with Death and
Essence that ensures that creatures continue this process. Life deals with
the mindless reproduction of living matter, whether it be carbon based or
silica based life forms. Life does not necessarily imply intelligence.
Intelligence deals more with the Essence Aspect of a living creature.
Non-sentient life possesses fragmentary or hive-like essence patterns.

Associated Magicks
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The Life Aspect deals primarily with the sphere of Life, but can also deal
with Spirit, Time and Entropy.

DEATH
The Greatest Equalizer
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Death deals with the termination of life forms and their inclusion into the
lifecycle. A powerful Aspect, Death has seemingly acquired a streak of
negativity associated with it. Death is neither good nor evil, it is simply
necessary. Death is part of the cycle of Renewal, a necessary part of the
Circle of the Living and the Dead. Gaia-dwelling humans have managed to tap
into the magicks of Death in many ways.

Associated Magicks
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The Spheres of Magick most associated with Death are Entropy, Forces and Time.
Necromancy is one of the ways Humanity has tapped the Primal energies of
Death. The Arcanos of the Shadowlands is another.

ESSENCE
Mind and Soul
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The acknowledgement of the true mind also allows for the acknowledgement of
the True Soul. Only intelligent beings may have souls. Souls that may tap
into the True nature and Primal Energies of the Universe are called
Awakened. Particular beings who can temporarily change the Nature of the
Universe are often described as Magi. These Magi house within them
fragments of the Greater Consciousness of the Universe and Gaian-dwelling
Magi call it the Avatar. It is possible to utilize Magick and not be a
Magi. There are subsidery magical energies that are not part of the Spheres
of Magick that Magi are tough to learn but are parts of the Essence of the
Universe and as such are available to any sentient creature with a desire
to learn. With Gaian-dwelling humans, these abilities are often call
Hedge-magick and Numina.

Associated Magicks
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The Spheres of Magick most associated with Essence are Mind, Spirit and
sometimes Prime.


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
QUASUM, DREAM and TRANSFORMATION
The Understructure of the Universe
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
This Trine has been considered the understructure of the Universe. Shadow
makes up the un-substance, the matter and energy of the Universe; Dream,
the mind of the Creator, the place where all that is Real, is, and
Transformation, the changing of the Universe from one thing to the next,
the constant renewal, destruction and evolution of the Universe. These make
up the underlying canvas the other Primal Entities paint upon.

QUASUM
Physical Matter & Radiant Energy
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Literally, nothing is real, everything is Quasum. Quasum is the nature of
matter and energy that says that they are ultimately interchangible and can
neither truly be created or destroyed. All that is substance is really
Quasum because of the infusion of Primal Essence delivered by the
Creator(s). The Universe exists because the Creator(s) will it such. It has
even been taught that the Matter and Energy are almost interchangeable
under the right circumstances. Magi learning to manipute Matter and Energy
soon discover their interchangable natures. The nature of Quasum also deals
with Time. Time is used as a measurement to understand Matter and Energy at
a Cosmic scale. Hence the relationship between Time and Space. Time is also
the glue that holds the Universe together in an orderly, clockwork fashion.
At least as far as Humanity is concerned...

Associated Magicks
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Magicks most associated with Quasum are, Forces, Matter and Time.

THE DREAM
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The Universe is but the Dreams of the Creator(s). The Allspace is but a
conceptual window into the Nature of the Universe. The Allspace is
everywhere and some magi think every-when. The Allspace is accessing that
Universal Consciousness to see and exist in all spaces and potentially all
times. Think of it as a link to the Realm of Forms or a leap into the
Quantum Field. Accessing this Universal Consciousness deals with the
concept of Logos, where the idea of perfect objects and ideas are stored
and accessed by mortal minds during the creation process. In this Logos
realm, the perfect chair awaits mortal minds to try and conceive of this
chair and make variations on it attempting to reach that ultimate
perfection. Everything exists there in one form or another. The Allspace is
the filter that is used to find that thing and bring the magi to it or it
to the magi.

Associated Magicks
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Magicks most associated with The Dream are Correspondence, Time, and Prime.

TRANSFORMATION
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
This is the nature of the Universe to change and evolve. This is a natural
tendency of the Universe. Nothing is constant, save that everything
continues to change. Transformation is mostly concerned with Entropy and
Randomness. It is one of the understructures of the Universe because what
Matter makes real and what the Shadow reflects, what the Dreamer dreams and
the Universal Consciousness knows, the Transformation Aspect changes and
creates variation, to prevent stagnation and eventual death.

Associated Magicks
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Magicks most associated with The Dream are Entropy, Time, and Prime.


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
THE CELESTIAL MOVEMENT
The Beginning of a Living Realm
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
A Celestial Movement is the gathering of the Primal Forces that combine to
form a Living Realm. This is believed to be the greatest expression of
Magick capable of being performed by a mortal being. A mortal would not
gather the primal elements, they would simply initiate the Celestial
Movement that causes the creation of the Living Realm. A Living Realm is
capable of supporting Life but not always necessarily Life as Humanity
understand it. The Celestial Movement also creates and supports all Realms
that are a part of it. Gaia is an example of a Living Realm. Gaia also
supports a number of Shard Realm nearby and the other planets in the Solar
System may also be Living Realms as well.  It is said that Oracles imitate
the incredibly complex natures of the Celestial Movement by the creation of
their personal Shard Realms. There is only one other Magic as powerful as
the Celestial Movment and it is called The Final Movment. The Final
Movement is the catastrophic explosion of a star and the destruction of the
Living Realm(s) near it.


A LIVING REALM
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
A Living Realm is made up of Nine Primal Elements: Creation, Destruction,
Balance, Life, Transformation, Death, Essence, Quasum, and The Dream.
This symbiotic relationship creates a sphere of local influences that
center on a particular Realm. In this case, the central Realm is Earth.
These interactions are local meaning not spread across the entire universe
(local implies a region of approximately 6 billion miles from the center of
the local gravity well, the Sun). This is a significant amount of space to
house nearby Shard, Reflected and Incomplete Realms.

THE REFLECTED REALM
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Gaia has a single reflected Realm called the Umbra. This spiritual
reflection houses the spiritual essence of Gaia and her inhabitants. The
Umbra, has several Penumbral levels which are sometimes called the
Reflected Realms, the Spirit Realms or The Astral Plane , since much of the
landscape in this realm reflects that of Gaia.

The Reflected Realms which include the Higher Umbra, a realm of reason
visited primarily by Magi, the Living Umbra, most often visited by Shamen
and Garou and the Shadowlands, the hidden realms of the Restless Dead are
all the same place, a reflection of the Living Realm of Gaia.

The Higher Umbra is an abstract realm of ideas that shares some of the
Dream Essence. (This Higher Umbra is not to be confused with the Deep
Umbra, which is the area beyond the orbit of the Moon.)

The Living Umbra most accurately reflects the Living Realm of Gaia and this
realm seems to possess many of the same characteristics of the Real World
but filled with the essences of spirits and spirit beings of nature.

The Shadowlands are also in the same Umbra but are only visible to beings
who are seeking the restless dead. The magicks most associated with Shadow
are Matter, Forces, and Entropy

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
THE ASPECTS OF THE LIVING REALM OF EARTH
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
These names are the vulgur argot used to describe the nature of the
Elemental Energies the create the Living Realm of Gaia. Please understand
that different groups will call these things different names and give
different aspects to them. It is subject to interpretation.

The Wyrm is the Balancing Aspect
The Wyrm is also the Destruction Aspect
The Weaver is the Creation Aspect
The Wyld is the Transformation Aspect
The Gaia Lifeforce is the Life Aspect
The Umbra is the Shadow Aspect
The Oblivion is the Death Aspect (found in the Shadowlands)
The Allspace is the Dream Element
The Phoenix* is the Essence Element (not covered in the World of Darkness text)


SHADOW, PHANTOM or DREAM REALMS
Shadow Realms are smaller incomplete realms that lack one or more of the
Nine Primal Elements. These realms often have a single element that is the
primary element of that realm and often seems to be the aspect that the
realm revolves around. These are smaller realms that spin off from a Primal
Realm (usually the Divine Realms or pocket realms of Oracles), or the Shard
Realms (Arcadia, Gor, Wonderland, Atlantis, Mu) that splinter off from a
Primal Realm due to natural, unnatural or catastrophic reasons. These
realms are often known as Incomplete, Dream, or Phantom Realms. These
realms usually lack some vital aspect that would make them appear normal to
normal creatures of Living realms. The more primary aspects a realm has the
more powerful the realm. Most Shard or Shadow realms only have one primary
aspect.

Examples:

Mt Olympus:
An incomplete realm whose primary primal aspect is Creation.
An incomplete realm whose primary primal aspect is Life.
An incomplete realm lacking the Primal Element of Death.
An incomplete realm lacking the Primal Element of Time.
An incomplete realm lacking the Primal Element of Entropy.
A powerful Shard realm, the beings who reside here are immortal and have
significant powers of creation and metamorphesis. The passage of Time is
unknown for all who live here. Unfortunately for these inhabitants, they
are also unable to change their natures despite the passing of the years.

Arcadia:
An incomplete realm whose primary primal aspect is Dream.
An incomplete realm lacking the Primal Element of Time.
To creatures of the Living Realm of Earth, the nature of Time is unable to
be tracked or even be sure that it is flowing in this realm. Creatures
living in this realm seem immortal by normal standards.

Alice's Wonderland:
An incomplete realm whose primary primal aspect is Life.
An incomplete realm lacking the Primal Element of Randomness.
The creatures of Wonderland lack the ability to change their natures. They
are doomed to repeat their actions without variation. Only creatures from
other realms may experience change in this realm.

Shadowlands:
An incomplete realm whose primary primal aspect is Oblivion.
An incomplete realm whose primary primal aspect is Entropy.
An incomplete realm lacking the Primal Element of Life.
The creatures of the Shadowlands are dead and divorced from the living.
They may mimic the living for a short time and beings who go to the
shadowlands almost inevitable have to be dead.


FINAL NOTES:
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The reason that the nature of this study seems Garou-centric is that Magi
and the Garou acknowledge that there are living forces that underly the
Creation of the Realm of Earth. These are called by their Garou equivalents
(Wyrm, Wyld, the Weaver and Gaia) because these are the most commonly known
forms of these Entities. The could have just as easily been identified as
Jormangandur, the Wyrm that Devours the World; Ydrassigal, the Tree of
Life; The Fates and the Force of Mother Nature. I am not against using
another format to describe these Aspects and as such they may not be
immediately recognized.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
There is no direct correspondence between the Aspects of a Living Realm and
the Spheres of Magic. The Spheres of Magic are conventions by which magi
perform their modifications of Reality. The Aspects are also conventions
that Magi use to understand the Universe on a large scale. You might
consider them a form of metamagic, that subsumes certains spheres within
it. It is possible for an single Aspect to affect more than one sphere. As
such there is no direct relationship between them. Any correlation between
them is the same as comparing a hand grenade (Sphere) to an atomic bomb
(Aspect).
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Are these Aspects Universal? It is difficult to tell. Magi that have
travelled to distant Living Realms rarely return. Some magi theorized that
the Universe should have universal constants because the underlying
theories of Magick seem to form the Grand Dance, indeed the Universe itself
seem familiar to Magi from our realm. Creatures from other Realms may or
may not work with or acknowledge different Aspects. The Nine Aspects
mentioned here may not be all that is known. These are simply the most well
established of the Aspects of our Living Realm.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



