From nv91-asa@black06.nada.kth.se Mon Sep 19 12:14:28 1994
Date: Mon, 19 Sep 1994 12:11:02 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@black06.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Umbrood Beings
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9409191202.E23294-0100000@black06.nada.kth.se>

Lord Akabil, the Lord of Maiming

This Umbrood lord is one of the nastiest beings a mage can
encounter. The Lord savours the taste of the pain, disgust
and horror other beings feel about maiming and cruelty, thus
his title.  Each act of cruelty or violence feeds the Lord,
and while he normally is rather detached from earthly
affairs, he sometimes try to intervene to spread his
dominion. Lord Akabil is in a sense the archetype of the
Evil King, who oppresses and terrorises his subjects and
ruthlessly destroys his enemies. 

The Lord looks like a forceful king, wearing royal garments
and wearing an imposing crown. But those who look closer
will notice that the robes are coloured red by drying blood
and the crown is really cold iron covered with gems and
gold. In his belt hangs nine blades, ranging from a
broadsword to a scalpel. His throne, which he seldom leaves,
is made of cold grey stone hidden beneath colourful silk and
ornaments. 

Lord Akabil resides in his own realm in the Deep Umbra. This
realm looks as a medieval countryside, covered with fields
and dark forests. In the centre the huge fortress of the
Lord stands, its imposing walls and turrets can be seen from
the farthest reaches of the realm. The inhabitants both look
and behave like humans, but they are furtive and fearful,
and most of them are maimed in at least some way.
Practically all inhabitants are one-eyed, many lack fingers,
hands, ears or tongues. Some inhabitants are even more
horribly maimed, many so wounded that they wouldnpt survive
outside the realm. 

The internal politics of the realm is chaotic. The Lord has
numerous vassals and children, each jockeying for position
and influence when not indulging in their own vices. Murder,
treachery, rape and intrigue fill the dark corridors of the
fortress. Executions, torture and imprisonment are
commonplace, and the wholly corrupt juridical system is
completely opportunistic. However, the Lord himself is like
the eye of the storm unmoved by all this, and is never
attacked. That doesnpt prevent him from randomly punishing
or rewarding people, sometimes at the same time. 

The Lord appears sociable, and is quite witty. However, he
has the disturbing habit of randomly selecting victims for
torture or other punishments just for his own enjoyment,
often among his guests.  Anybody who opposes him is
ruthlessly destroyed. However, most of the time he talks
loftily about peace and friendship, while plotting for the
downfall of his allies. 

One thing to note is that the Lord isnpt allied to the
Nephandi or Marauders. In fact, he will support their
enemies, since he is not that helped by chaos and needs
human pain and fear to exist.  Should the Nephandi succeed,
all human emotions and thoughts would be wiped away,
including him. The Lord doesnpt care much about the
Technocracy, since they are actually doing his dirty work
for him and slowly become as twisted leaders as he. 

Essence: Pattern 
Nature: Sadist 
Demeanour: Caregiver

Rotes:

The One-Eyed Man is King (Correspondence 2 Prime 3)
The Lord grabs somebodyps eye and eats it. (This is an
attack giving four boxes of aggravated damage. Extra damage
is ignored, and less damage means the attack failed and only
damaged the eye). Now the Lord can see through the other eye
of the victim whenever he wants to. This is the reason most
of the servants of him is one-eyed, forming a massive
spy-network. As long as the Lord has the eye, it cannot
regrow. 

Lend Me Your Ears (Correspondence 2 Prime 3)
Like above, but by eating an ear of a victim, the Lord is
able to hear through the other ear. 

Borrow Limb (Life 4 Mind 3)
The Lord simply cuts off a limb of a victim, and cuts open a
gash in himself to fit it in. In that way he can then use it
until it withers and dies. He also gains any skills _in_ the
limb, like the power of playing an instrument if its the
arm, the talent of singing if its a bardps tongue or the
ability to play football if its a footballplayerps leg. This
of course makes him very interested in inviting guests with
rare talents... 

Creative Anatomy (Life 4)
This is used by the Lord to amuse himself or to punish
people he donpt like (or like). The rote gives him the
chance to move different limbs or organs to new places,
reshape existing limbs and make the victim survive the
operation. Typical effects are opening up the abdomen
permanently, sewing amputated limbs onto new locations or
permanently impale them on a pole. 


Story Ideas:

The Mages discover that a powerful talisman or artefact
exists inside the realm, and are sent to find it. How to
deal with the local nobles and their Lord? 

The Lord has decided to manifest on Earth, helped by a cabal
of mages bent on opening the way for him. They intend to let
him possess a political leader, to help them fight the
Technocracy through its own means. The Lord himself of
course have his own ideas... 

A disturbed sleeper seeks to contest the Lord for his realm.
By an insane, yet inspired ritual he intends to challenge
the Lord in a contest of cruelty. The players start to
discover strange, nontraditional magick and a disturbing
rise in violence as the madman prepares to almost literally
bring hell to earth. 


The Fool

This being is one of the most enigmatic beings known to
mages. It represents both total unenligthenment and total
enlightenment, madness but also wisdom. He is the pure fool
Parcifal, he is the divinely inspired madman and the great
jester. Unlike the demon Choronzon which tries to halt the
quest for Ascension, the Fool supports it, albeit in strange
ways. He is the patron of all mystics, and often seems to
try to disrupt the careful planning of mages to force them
to realise that true enlightenment doesnpt necessarily come
from magick. Or maybe he is just playing with them. 

The Fool is often seen as on the Tarot card, a young man
clad in green dancing on the edge of an abyss, accompanied
by a small dog which bites and barks to warn him. But when
he manifests, he might choose any form. He has possessed
people, appeared in dreams or hallucinations, appeared as
animals or humans or just been present as a nimbus in an
area, causing great chaos. 

Naturally the Fool and Malkavians have great affinity for
each other, and some claim Malkav himself *is* the Fool.
When Malkavians and the Fool meet, they understand each
other perfectly, and all malkavians obey him into final
death. He seems also to be related to the Marauders,
Discordians and some of the more eccentric mages, maybe
because they are already insane or close to insanity. But at
the same time, the Fool isn't insane, he just appears to be.
Or maybe he really is insane, but due to his luck always
succeeds. 

Essence: Primordial
Nature: Deviant
Demeanour: Jester

Rotes:

Talk (Mind 3)
The Fool simply says something, and everybody in the
vicinity influenced is forced to say the same thing in the
same way; if he shouts, they shout, if he whispers, they
whisper. This can be combined with suggestions, effectively
forcing people to suggest things to themselves. 

Dance of Chaos (Entropy 3 Prime 2)
The Fool dances, and spreads chaos and confusion around
himself.  Randomness reigns, nothing is certain and
everything seems possible. Strange coincidences appear,
people suddenly turn irrational, patterns appear in
randomness and everything planned and ordered is undone.
However, as the effect ends reality snaps back into place
with double strength, temporarily becoming more rigid than
ever. Randomness, decay and confusion is replaced by perfect
normality. 

Wisdom from the Fools Mouth (Correspondence 3 Mind 3 Entropy 2)
This rote fills the mind of a willing (?) victim with random
impulses, impressions and ideas from anywhere in the world
(and outside). This can be both useful, inspirational and
utterly disorienting. A weak effect can fill an artist with
creative fury, while a stronger may incapacitate him with
too many ideas at once.  Some victims start to ramble
incoherently. This generally sounds like madness, but inside
the disjointed phrases a careful listener can discern deep
truths. 

The Tower (Correspondence 3 Entropy 3)

This rote was apparently adopted by the Discordians, who
call it "I sunk <blank>". The Fool is able to spread chaos,
madness and disorder into organisations (like a chantry) by
simply toppling over something that is part of it (like a
chair, a mage or a pencil). Subtle chaos will overtake the
place, and nothing will be as before.  Random effects,
sudden strokes of insanity or inspiration, unexpected events
and accidents fill the place. 


The Friend

This minor spirit hangs around people, and when they need
help it manifests as the helping gentleman who holds up
doors, picks up dropped objects or leads old ladies over the
street. The being actually lives on the gratitude of its
clients. Afterwards, nobody remembers how the helper looked. 


The Snake of Power

This being looks like a gigantic snake made of blue-white
light in the Umbra. Lightening crackles along its scales and
beams of power stream from its eyes. Normally it lies coiled
around a node with its tail in its mouth. It seems to be
content just lying there, absorbing excess quintessence and
protecting the node from intruders. Many mages have made
deals with it for protection of their nodes, and it has
always kept its word. 

A protected node is not apparent, since the Snake reins in
the power and keeps it inside its coils, thus concentrating
it. To use the power, the mage must give the Snake his name
and a password.  Then the snake uncoils, releasing the
power. If he doesn't, or try to force his way through, the
snake attacks with ferocious power. 

One odd side of the Snake is its personality. It tends to
speak in a formal manner, asking for the name and password
with ceremonial language. When dealing with the owner of the
node or other passers by, it behaves as the perfect
guardian. But those few mages who dare to try to befriend it
find a very different being underneath, who simply loves to
chat and feel physical nearness.  Its quite unusual for a
primarily umbral being, and maybe an effect of having spent
centuries in the proximity of nodes. 


PSI.SYS

This being is one of the strange net.denizens Virtual Adepts
summon. It will manifest as the Greek letter Psi on the
screen or in Virtual Reality. PSI.SYS is rather well known
among the Adepts (who collect pointers and addresses of
interesting net.denizens) for its ability to help with
paranormal, occult and supernatural matters (quite rare
among the generally materialistic beings the VAs deal with).
It can answer questions about occultism and supernatural
creatures, offer information and tips on how to deal with
them. Its however rather theoretical, and tends to use a lot
of statistical verbiage to make sure its predictions and
advice are correctly worded. 

What few mages realise is that PSI.SYS isn't very
knowledgeable at all. It knows quite a bit, but its shallow
information and mostly guesswork. However, its very good at
sounding authoritative while adding lots of apparently
unnecessary statistical caveats ("Not enough statistical
information available in this problem-instance, standard
deviation from estimate more than 50%."). It then discreetly
monitors the actions of the mage to study and improve its
database of information. It sometimes gives erroneous
information just to study the results, and more than one
mage has perished to sate the curiosity of the being. 

Roleplaying tips: Talk evenly without any change, using as
much information processing and statistical terms you can.
Always answer peoples questions, as carefully as possible.
If there is any ambiguity in the query, ask for further
parameters. 

Quote: "Query result: Local Maximum of Estimated Number of
Vampiric Beings: location "Club, Succubus". Total Estimate:
2 units per night, with an Estimated Standard Deviation of 2
units per night."

Story Ideas: 

A character interested (or unwittingly involved) into the
affairs of the kindred may need some information. Here is
this nice, polite expert system which just wants to help... 

PSI.SYS has gone too far, and a mage has been killed. His or
her friends have decided to dismantle PSI whatever it is.
The players may become involved in the search for the
elusive being. Is it a runaway AI, a small pile of
self-organised junk code, a Malkavian or something far more
insidious? 

PSI has actually happened to uncover a bit of important
information the players need. Now they have to deal with the
capricious being, who might want them to help it find some
other important information about the supernatural world.
Nothing hard, just the demographics of the vampires of the
city... 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




