From: pfstrack@email.unc.edu (Paul Strack)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller,alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: The Umbra (very long)
Date: 2 Jan 1996 05:56:21 GMT
Organization: University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
NNTP-Posting-Host: login0.email.unc.edu

[Author's Note:  This is my attempt to gather the information published 
so far on the Umbra into a single, coherent cosmology.  Given the 
publication of 2nd Ed. Mage, I feel reasonably certain that we have a 
fairly clear picture of what things are like.  The only major open 
question is the nature of Arcadia.  There are still a few niggling 
inconsistencies and unclear points, and this is my best attempt to clear 
them up.]
 
 
 
Geography of the Umbra
 
The Umbra, the spiritlands, is a vast and varied world, where belief and 
metaphor are more important than form and substance.  To describe it 
completely is an impossible task.  This does not stop various mystics 
from trying.  There are regions and layers to the Umbra, areas which 
share common characteristics, and these at least may be deliniated.  No 
description of the Umbra is ever complete, though.
 
Travelers through the Umbra come in many forms.  Garou and Mages make 
regular journeys to these lands, and Spirits and Wraiths call it their 
home.  For the sake of simplicity, this text refers to all seekers of 
the spirit world as mystics.
 
 
 
The Depths of the Umbra
 
Most descriptions of the Umbra first divide it regions based on the 
"nearness" of its various parts to the Earth or the physical world.  One 
useful analogy is to picture the structure of the Umbra as that of the 
Earth with its atmosphere leading deeper into space.
 
At the "closest" level, you have the Earth itself, the physical world 
where all that we are commonly familiar with resides.  The Gauntlet, 
corresponding to the ground, separates the Earth from the spirit world.  
Next out is the surface of the Earth, the Penumbra, which is like the 
physical world in many ways.  The Penumbra is the immediate spiritual 
reflection of the Earth, and its geography is very similar to the 
physical world.
 
Moving further out, you reach the Near Umbra, corresponding to the 
atmosphere of the Earth.  Within the Near Umbra are various Spiritual 
Realms with close ties to the Earth.  For those who know the way, the 
paths of the Near Umbra can be traversed in reasonable safety to reach 
these Realms.  At the edge of the Near Umbra lies the Horizon, the 
boundary between the atmosphere and "outer space".  This membrane 
separates the Earth's immediate spiritual world from what lies beyond.
 
On the other side of the Horizon is the Deep Umbra, a immense and empty 
space.  The Deep Umbra seems limitless, and is inhospitable to many 
spiritual beings from the Earth's Near Umbra.  Only the most seasoned 
Umbral traveler can hope to cross the Deep Umbra and survive.  Within 
the Deep Umbra are multitude of spiritual Realms, of a more alien nature 
than the Near Realms.  Some of these Realms seem to contain entire 
worlds, with their own Horizon, Near Umbra and separate physical 
existence.
 
 
 
Figure 1 - ALLEGORICAL VIEW OF THE UMBRAL DEPTHS
 
Earth -  Ground  - Surface  - Atmosphere - Edge of Space - Deep Space
 
Earth - Gauntlet - Penumbra - Near Umbra -    Horizon    - Deep Umbra
 
 
 
The Three Worlds of the Umbra
 
In addition to the inside-out division of the Umbra, mystics also divide 
the Umbra into three separate layers or worlds.  These layers, called 
the High, Middle and Low Umbra, stretch from the Near Umbra outward.  
Each layer of the Umbra has its own character.  It is difficult to say 
if the different layers of the Umbra are distinct regions, or they 
result from different mentals states on the part of the Umbral traveler.
 
The High Umbra or the Astral Plane is a region of abstractions and 
ideas.  Thoughts take on physical form in this portion of the Umbra.  
The Middle or Living Umbra is a more natural region, filled with raw and 
primal energies.  The Low Umbra or the Underworld is the land of the 
dead.  Many human ghosts reside in the Near Umbra of this layer, and it 
is believed that further out there a mystic can find the afterlives of 
humankind.
 
Knowledgeable mystics have compared the three layers of the Umbra to the 
Triat of the Weaver, Wyld, and Wyrm of Garou mythology, or the Trinity 
of Stasis, Dynamism, and Entropy that many mages espouse.  There is some 
truth to this supposition, and it is a useful analogy, if not carried 
too far.  There are elements of all three types of energy in every layer 
of the Umbra.
 
Though the different layers extend from the Gauntlet all the way out to 
the Deep Umbra, these differences are most pronounced in the Near Umbra.  
The Penumbra of the Three Worlds are very similar, perhaps identical in 
the case of the middle and high Umbras.  At the other extreme, the Deep 
Umbras of the Three Worlds may actually connect.  Further confusing the 
issue are various Zones such as the Dream lands that wander in and out 
of all Three Worlds, and through the various depths of the Umbra.
 
 
 
Figure 2 - THE BASIC STRUCTURE OF THE THREE WORLDS
 
       |G|  P
 P     |A|  E                          |H|
 H     |U|  N      NEAR ASTRAL UMBRA   |O|  DEEP ASTRAL UMBRA
 Y     |N|  U                          |R|
 S     |T|  M  - - --------------------|I|------------------- - -  -   -
 I     |L|  B                          |Z|
 C     |E|  R      NEAR LIVING UMBRA   |O|  DEEP LIVING UMBRA
 A     |T|  A                          |N|
 L     |-|--------------------------------------------------- - -  -   -
    W  |S| S
    O  |H| H  L          THE                       THE
    R  |R| A  A                      STYGIA
    L  |O| D  N        TEMPEST                  FAR SHORES
    D  |U| O  D
       |D| W  S
 
 
 
The Realm
 
Before any proper discussion of the Umbra can take place, a mystic must 
first consider the physical world, the Earth herself.  Many mystics 
consider the Earth to be but one realm of many, but most consider the 
Earth to be of primary importance (at least, to mystics native to this 
world).  As such, the physical world is often simply referred to as The 
Realm, without further qualifiers.
 
The physical world is familiar to most people, and little description is 
necessary.  The Realm is a place of things that you can see and touch, 
not of the emphemera and spirits of the Umbra.  The Realm is not devoid 
of spiritual energy, however.  It is the center, from which the rest of 
the Umbra derives its power.  At one time the Realm and the Umbra were 
as one, and there was no distinction between body and spirit.  Modern 
man is largely blind to spiritual power, however, and the mystic must 
journey to the Umbra to find true insight.
 
 
 
The Periphery
 
Though the Realm is mostly separate from the spirit world, this is not 
completely true.  In certain places and certain times, the spirit world 
can bleed through, and partly join with the physical world once more.  
This cross-over is referred to as the Periphery, and is a much sought 
after state for mystics.
 
On the Periphery, a mystic is more aware of the spiritual world.  The 
world seem more vibrant and everything seems alive, as the spiritual 
side of all things partially manifests.  Even non-aware individuals can 
feel the spiritual power of the Periphery.  The barriers between the 
physical and spiritual world are weakest here, and it is possible to 
accidentally slip from one world to another, something which mages call 
the Shallowing Effect.
 
The Periphery exists in places of great power, the Caerns, Nodes, Haunts 
and Freeholds of the various supernatural races.  In these places the 
spiritual world is felt most strongly, though the exact aspect or layer 
of the Umbra which shines through may vary.  In other instances, the 
Periphery may only manifest temporarily, due to some outporing of 
spiritual energy.  Some say that the Periphery is not a place but rather 
a mental state, the mood one has when on the edge of stepping from the 
physical World into the Umbra.
 
 
 
The Gauntlet
 
The Gauntlet is not a place, but a boundary.  It is the barrier between 
the physical world and the Umbra.  In the ancient past the Gauntlet did 
not exist, but in modern time it has been growing ever stronger.  
Mystics fear that some day it will harden completely, and the physical 
and spiritual worlds will be finally cut off.  There are forces at work 
- the Weaver in the opinion of the Garou and the Technocracy according 
to the mages - that actively work to thicken the Gauntlet.
 
The "thickness" of the Gauntlet varies from place to place, depending on 
the spiritual power of a region.  The cities of man tend to have the 
strongest Gauntlet, being farther removed from the Umbra.  Natural 
places tend to have thinner Gauntlets, and it is easier in those places 
to reach the spiritual world.  In sites of great magickal power, the 
Gauntlet barely exists at all.  In those places, the physical world lies 
in the Periphery.  The Umbra can be entered with ease, and even by non-
mystics can sometimes make their way through, by accident or design.
 
 
 
The Penumbra
 
On the other side of the Gauntlet lies the Penumbra, the spiritual 
reflection of the Earth and the "nearest" part of the Umbra to the 
physical world.  Geographically, the Penumbra is nearly an exact match 
to the physical world.  Places in the Penumbra directly correspond to 
places in Realm.  If a mystic enters the Penumbra, moves through it to 
another place and returns to the physical world, they will reappear in 
the physical location corresponding to the place where she left the 
Penumbra.  The basic lay of the land is the same, but the details may be 
different.
 
Many things in the physical world have a direct spiritual counterpart in 
the Penumbra.  As a general rule of thumb, inanimate objects in the 
Realm have their counterpart in the Penumbra, while objects that change 
their location do not.  Thus, buildings, plants and furniture will have 
their spiritual doubles, while cars, people and animals will not appear 
in the Penumbra.  This is not to say the Penumbra is devoid of 
inhabitants.  The Penumbra is full of spirits, but these spirits are not 
directly connected to a physical individual.
 
The mystic may travel within the Penumbra by all the means available in 
the physical world.  He may open doors, walk down the street, climb a 
tree, and so forth.  He may see as he does in the physical world, from 
sun or moon light, or the glow of Umbral streetlights.  The physical 
laws of the Penumbra are nearly the same as the Realm, so the mystic 
will have relatively few surprises here, except from the spirits that 
inhabit the Penumbra.
 
 
 
Echoes of the Physical World
 
There are mystics who believe that the Penumbra is a shadow of the 
physical world, and others believe that the physical world is a mere 
shadow of the Penumbra.  Whatever the truth of the situation, objects in 
the Realm and their counterparts in the Penumbra are connected in some 
metaphysical fashion.  Whichever comes first, changes in the Realm are 
echoed by changes in the Penumbra.
 
Most inanimate objects in the physical world have an Umbral "shadow".  
This shadow has roughly the same appearance and location as the physical 
object.  Some mystics go so far as to say that the shadow is the spirit 
or soul of the physical object.  The Umbral and physical objects are not 
"glued" together.  If a mystic opens an Umbral door, it's physical 
counterpart will remains shut.  If you rearrange the objects on an 
Umbral desk, their physical doubles do not move immediately.
 
The physical and Umbral objects tend to gravitate to the same state, 
however.  While the Umbral door is left open, it is more likely someone 
will forget to shut the physical door as well.  If the physical door is 
kept shut, the Umbral door will eventually swing closed.  If someone 
picks up an object on the physical desk, she will tend to set it down 
where the Umbral counterpart lies.  Over time, the Umbral doubles will 
move back across the desk to match the location of the physical objects.
 
This is true of dramatic changes as well.  If a building is torn down in 
the physical world, its Umbral counterpart will remain in place.  Over 
time, however, the Umbral building will fade, to be replaced by the 
counterpart of the new building erected in its place.  If an Umbral tree 
is cut down, the physical tree is initially unharmed.  After a while, 
though, the physical tree will sicken and likely die.
 
The speed at which changes take place in Umbral shadows depends on the 
spiritual power of the changes on earth.  Events with strong emotional 
impact, violent destruction or magickal feats tend to cause rapid - even 
immediate - changes in the Penumbra.  On the other hand, if a physical 
object of great spiritual power is removed, its Umbral shadow may remain 
for some time.  If a popular church is torn down and replaced with a 
convenience store, the shadow of the church in the Penumbra may linger 
on for decades.  The Penumbra can be a "record" for sites of spiritual 
power long after they are gone in the physical world.
 
Sometimes changes in the Umbra will foreshadow changes in the physical 
world.  If a great church is going to be built on a plot of land, it 
might appear in the Umbra before even the foundation of the physical 
building is laid down - long before anyone knows how important that 
church will be.  Mystics can use the Penumbra as a barometer for 
important spiritual events in the near future.  Changes in the Umbra can 
warn the mystic of great happenings in the physical world.
 
 
 
Perception in the Penumbra
 
As described above, inanimate objects and places have shadows in the 
Umbra.  The appearance of the Umbral shadow is roughly the same as that 
of the physical object, but there are differences.  Umbral objects, 
being spiritual in nature, tend to reflect the "true" nature of an 
object, showing its emotional and metaphysical side.  A well loved home 
will seem bright and cheerful in the Umbra, even if its physical 
counterpart is dingy and run-down.  On the other hand, an Umbral 
slaughterhouse will be splattered with blood and gore, even if the 
physical building is kept spotless.
 
Many mystics find that Umbral objects of technology and man reflect the 
power that the Garou call the Weaver.  They are often filled with 
strands that look like webbing, and the interior might be crawling with 
small insect-like spirits.  Alternately, the Umbral shadow may be more 
perfectly geometrical that its physical counterpart, with exact circles 
and perfect planes, looking more like a computer generated image than 
anything else.  The air in the Umbral city is often dry and stale, and 
the wind rarely blows there.  A feeling of statis and entrapment covers 
the land.
 
Conversely, the Umbral wilderness seems more vibrant and alive.  The air 
is richer than it could possibly be in the physical world, and full of 
lush smells.  Everything is bursting with life.  The world is full of 
curves and subtle shadows and there is a mysterious depth and substance 
to all things.  Colors seem more vivid and the mystic will find that he 
can see far in the unclogged Umbral air.
 
While Umbral shadows reflect the inner nature of an object, the beliefs 
and preconceptions of the viewer are almost as important.  Technomantic 
mages, for example, will have a very different view of objects in the 
Umbra.  Rather than seeing webs covering technological objects, they 
might see strands of pulsing energy.  The city air will smell of ozone 
and seem electrical rather than stale, like just before a rain storm.  
The wilderness, on the other hand, will smell cloyingly sweet - damp, 
musty and unclean - and will be full of harsh shadows threatening 
dangers unseen.
 
Note that travelers in the Penumbra are not completely immune to 
alterations of appearance.  A mystic may find that his visage in the 
Penumbra reflects his true nature, or perhaps his idealized self.  His 
appearance can even vary, depending on the mystic's mood.  Seasoned 
Umbral travelers are aware of this effect, and can usually keep their 
appearance "under control", especially if they wish to conceal some 
aspect of themselves.
 
 
 
The Three Worlds in the Penumbra
 
The distinction between the High and the Middle Umbra is difficult to 
make in the Penumbra.  Both of seem share the same "jump off" points.  
Mystics heading for the Astral Plane or the Living Umbra seem to pass 
through the same physical reflection of Earth, filled with the same 
spiritual inhabitants.
 
This is not completely true, however.  The High and Middle Umbras do 
make some difference in the Penumbra, but they are mostly perceptual.  
Mystics leaning toward the Astral Plane tend to see the mental or 
intellectual aspects of an object reflected in its appearance, while 
mystics leaning toward the Living Umbra see the fundamental natural 
aspects of an object.
 
The Low Umbra, the Underworld, is very distinct, though, even in the 
Penumbra.  The lands of the dead are completely separate from the rest 
of the Umbra, at the earliest stages.  The Low Penumbra is different 
enough to have its own name: the Shadowlands.
 
 
 
The Shadowlands
 
The Shadowlands is the part of the Underworld nearest the physical 
world.  It is similar to, but completely separate from the Penumbra.  
Ghosts in the Shadowlands are incapable of seeing spirits in the 
Penumbra, and vice versa.  There is no simple way to move from the Land 
of the Dead to the rest of the Umbra.
 
The Shadowlands are bound away from the Realm by a barrier known as the 
Shroud, similar to the Gauntlet.  Unlike the Gauntlet, the Shroud is 
weakest in places and times that are touched by death.  Graveyards and 
the night are weak points in the Shroud, while in places where life is 
in full bloom the Shroud is thicker.  While the Shroud does vary in 
thickness, overall it is more difficult to penetrate than the Gauntlet.
 
Everything in the physical world, inanimate or otherwise, has a ghostly 
reflection in the Shadowlands.  These shadows move as their physical 
counterpart moves.  Thus, buildings, people, cars and all other things 
in the physical world are perfectly visible to ghostly eyes.  The 
shadows are insubstantial, however, and ghosts cannot interact with them 
directly.  The shadows have only enough substance to be slightly 
dangerous.  If the shadow of a physical object passes quickly or violent 
through a ghost, it can tear away a bit of a ghost's plasmic substance.
 
The appearance of the ghostly reflections of physical objects are always 
tainted by death.  Wood seems rotten, metal rusted, people wan and 
diseased.  Occasionally people that are particularly full of life will 
"shine through" into the Shadowland with their normal appearance, but 
they are the exception rather than the rule.
 
Occasionally, objects destroyed in a particularly violent or magickal 
fashion can be pulled through the Shroud.  The shadow of these objects 
will take on a complete plasmic existence, and will be substantial to 
other ghostly objects.  Wraiths can touch such objects - and each other 
- normally.  These plasmic objects are the rare goods and people of the 
Shadowlands, all the time surrounded by insubstantial images of plenty 
from the living world.
 
Some mystics have an alternate view of the Shadowlands.  These mystics 
claim that the Shadowlands are not a place at all.  Ghosts reside 
instead in the world of the living.  It is the wraiths that are 
insubstantial - except to each other - and the appearance of physical 
objects is skewed by ghostly eyes.  Both explanations fit the facts, and 
it is really a question of one's point of view.
 
 
 
Domains
 
Occasionally a particular region will have such strong spiritual 
"coloration" that it will take on a different character from the rest of 
the Penumbra.  These sites are called Domains, of which there are many 
different types.  Usually domains reflect some great mystical power in 
both the physical world and the corresponding Penumbra, strong enough to 
warp the nature of both.
 
The Garou mark out Domains under the influence of the Weaver, Wyrm or 
(very rarely) the Wyld.  These sites are particularly enfused with one 
type of spiritual energy.  They tend to attract spirits of the 
appropriate type, and the corresponding place in the physical world will 
be touched by Statis, Entropy or Chaos (as appropriate).
 
Domains seem to be most visible to mystics attuned to the Living rather 
than Astral Umbra.  Perhaps this is because Domains reflect the natural 
energies of a place, rather than its intellectual properties.  There are 
a few domains that reflect on the Astral Plane.  Such places tend to be 
tied with some strong concept or idea that germinates in the nearby 
physical world.  An important church may create a Domain devoted to the 
divine in the Penumbra, while the office of a great mathematician may be 
surrounded by a strange concept-realm of abstract symbols and ideas.
 
The Shadowlands have Domains as well.  These sites are usually the 
accumulation of large numbers of plasmic objects, gathered by Wraiths 
from throughout the shadowlands.  Called citadels, these are the 
strongholds of the dead, where they gather in times of trouble.
 
Many mystics devote large amounts of time and energy to cleansing 
Domains of what they believe to be malevolent energy.  This is by no 
means a simple task.  To cleanse a Domain, a mystic must alter both the 
spiritual and physical worlds.  It is not enough to change just one or 
the other, as the Echo Effect will draw the other side back to its 
original state.  The cleansing of Domains is often complicated by the 
presence of spirits attuned to the local energy, who will fight to 
protect their home.
 
For more examples of Domains, see the Werewolf rules, p. 172, or Umbra: 
the Velvet Shadow, pp. 106-7.
 
 
 
Sites of Power
 
As mentioned above, there are certain sites of power, places where the 
Gauntlet is particularly thin, and these places are reflected in both 
the Realm and the Umbra.  They go by many names, Caerns, Nodes, Haunts, 
and Freeholds, but they all mean power.  These sites are readily visible 
from the Penumbra, if unprotected.
 
Sites of power are usually associated with a particular kind of energy, 
through a phenomenon known as Resonance by mages.  The nearby Penumbra 
will reflect the site's nature, and mystics tap its power more easily if 
they use it in a manner sympathetic to the site's Resonance.  A site's 
energy is often most useful to one kind of supernatural creature, but 
most mystics look for magick where ever they can find it.  Mages are 
particularly notorious for raiding all sorts of places of mystical 
power.
 
Because these sites of power are so important, they are rarely left 
unclaimed or ungaurded.  The inhabitants of a site will usually do their 
best to hide it from the questing eyes of others that would try to claim 
it.  The Garou use the Rite of the Shrouded Glen to hide their caerns, 
while Mages weave elaborate wards around their Nodes.  The Faerie wrap 
their greatest Freeholds with veils of Glamour, while Wraiths and 
Spirits guard their homes with all the powers they command.
 
Many of these protections cloud the site's appearance in the Penumbra.  
There are several ways this is done.  Some protections simply encourage 
wanderers to go elsewhere, moving them around the site.  Faerie paths 
that twist searchers around in an impenetrable maze are one famous 
example of this defense.
 
Another method of protection creates a "bubble" over the area, with a 
"false Penumbra" over top.  In all ways, this false Penumbra replaces 
the actual Penumbra, but without the tell-tale signs of energy and 
power.  Searchers can walk right "over" the site in the Penumbra without 
realizing it is "beneath" their feet.  Only those that know the proper 
paths can enter the actual Penumbra surrounding the site.
 
Some of the weaker sites are protected merely by their lack of power.  A 
site that is weak enough will only attract the attention of supernatural 
creatures that are attuned to that particular kind of energy.  Other 
mystics will dismiss the site as too weak to be of use.  The weaker 
Haunts of Wraiths and Freeholds of Changelings fall into this category.
 
 
 
Near Umbra
 
An Umbral traveler can spend all her time wandering the Penumbra, but 
most mystics eventually venture off into the more varied world of the 
Near Umbra.  Realms in the the Near Umbra have no direct link to any 
place on earth, and geography ceases to have any real meaning.  In fact, 
earthly notions of time and space do not have as much bearing in the 
Near Umbra, and travel through this region can be confusing indeed.
 
Reaching the Near Umbra can be a non-trivial task.  There are places in 
the Penumbra that lead deeper into the spiritual world.  These paths are 
many, but most most mystics know only a few.  It takes knowledge to find 
an Umbral paths, and an ignorant traveler can walk right by one without 
ever knowing it.
 
Usually these paths is associated with a particular kind of spiritual 
energy.  The start of such paths can be found in places exhibiting that 
kind of power.  The mystic can enter the path by focusing on the energy 
of the path rather than the energy of the Penumbra.  As she moves away 
from the site, she will see the Penumbra fade away, and find herself on 
the Umbral Path instead.  A few Umbral Paths are of such strength that 
they will be readily visible in the Penumbra, as some sort of gate into 
the other world.
 
Once in the Near Umbra, distance has little meaning.  The traveler must 
follow the path he has chosen, and go where it leads.  The journey can 
be long and short, but there seems little rhyme or reason to distances 
within the Near Umbra.  Happily, the Near Umbra itself is not a hostile 
environment, and the traveler should be reasonably safe.  Safe, that is, 
unless they encounter some of the potentially hostile spirits that walk 
those same paths.
 
Most of the Near Umbra is a place to travel through, rather than a 
destination.  Scattered through the Near Umbra are various Umbral 
Realms.  These Realms are like worlds of their own, separated from the 
rest of the Near Umbra from by a thin Gauntlet called a Pericarp.  The 
Near Umbral Realms, often called Near Realms, are usually related to the 
Earth in some way.  They vary wildly in size and nature, and can be 
rather bizarre, but travelers from Earth can usually make some sort of 
sense of them, given time.
 
In the Near Umbra, the distinction between the Three Worlds is the 
strongest.  The types of paths that lead into and through the High, 
Middle and Low Umbras are very different.  It takes power and knowledge 
to chose the right one.
 
 
 
The Near Living Umbra
 
The Near Living Umbra is a realm criss-crossed with a variety of paths.  
The Garou are most familiar with Moon Paths, roads formed out of solid 
moon-light.  These paths are more bright, solid and reliable when the 
moon is full, but at such times they are traveled by Lunar spirits, who 
may or may not be friendly.  When the moon is waning, the paths are 
thin, dark and hard to follow, and the traveler risks getting lost.
 
Also crossing the Near Umbra is the Pattern Web, a manifestation of the 
Weaver.  Some mystics believe the Web is the foundation of reality, 
holding everything together.  The wary traveler can make her way along 
its strands to her destination.  The Weaver jealously guards her web, 
and Weaver spirits patrol the Web's span.  In addition, there are places 
where the Web is sticky, and the traveler can get caught.
 
It is rumored that the Wyrm has tunnels through or "beneath" the Living 
Umbra, dark paths for it's minions.  They are said to be rough hewn, 
almost chewed in appearance, and in places filled with pools of toxic 
sludge.  If the tunnels exist, they must be very dangerous to follow.
 
Aside from Moon Paths and the structures of the Weaver and Wyrm, the 
primary method for navigating the Near Living Umbra is to have a spirit 
guide of some sort.  Many spirits have a natural ability, called the 
Airt Sense, that allows them to sense the proper direction to any place 
in the Umbra.  They can travel off the main paths, directly to their 
destination.
 
Occasionally, mystics may find frequently traveled Spirit Tracks, where 
many spirits have passed.  The mystic can follow these to whatever 
destination the spirit was directed.  Some mystics travel by seeking a 
spiritual inhabitant of a particular Realm, and following it in the hope 
that it will lead to such a Spirit Track.
 
There are innumerable minor paths through the Near Living Umbra as well.  
Some of these paths connect specific Near Realms.  Others have been 
constructed by some group of Spirits or another.  Some of these minor 
paths are hidden, and most are difficult to find.
 
Off the paths, the Near Living Umbra is a morass of formless mist.  This 
mist can vary in character: sometimes it is a dense fog, others times 
like clouds.  Occasionally it will clear completely, and the traveler 
will see blue (or night) sky in all directions, with clouds here and 
there.  Without guidance, the mystic floats aimlessly through the Living 
Umbra, until he stumbles on one of paths, some Near Realm, or back to 
the Penumbra.
 
For more details in the paths through the Living Umbra, see the Werewolf 
book, pp. 176-7, or Umbra: the Velvet Shadow, pp. 23-5.
 
 
 
Near Astral Plane
 
[Author's Note:  This entire section is speculative.  If you don't like 
this material, you might have travel in the Astral Plane resemble travel 
in the Living Umbra instead.]
 
The High Umbra, or the Astral Plane is a realm of ideas.  Its Near Umbra 
is laced with paths as well.  Like the Living Umbra, the Astral Plane 
has Spirit Guides, Spirit Tracks and various Minor Paths.  It also has 
major byways of its own.
 
The "paths" of the Astral Plane are not the sort of things one simply 
walks along.  Astral Paths are conceptual in nature.  The mystic 
"travels" along Astral Paths be changing their mental states.  As their 
mental state changes, so does the scenery around them.  The mystic seeks 
out the proper mental state that allows her to "arrive" at whatever 
Umbral Realm she seeks.
 
Many novice travelers in the Astral Umbra are fooled by the seeming 
simplicity of this method of travel, and let their minds wander wildly, 
hoping to arrive rapidly at the their destination.  Such methods can get 
the traveler lost very quickly.  By moving too fast, the Astral traveler 
can lose firmness of thought, and end up nowhere.
 
The seasoned Astral traveller will move slowly and cautiously, carefully 
building up the necessary conceptual framework piece by piece.  The 
mystic will focus on developing a single aspect of his image of his 
destination, making certain he has a solid hold on it before working on 
the next aspect.  This method can take hours, days or even weeks of 
careful meditation, but the journey will be safe and sure.
 
There are several recognized paths or methods of moving through the 
Astral Umbra.  The first is the Path of Form, the Low Path, and it is 
easiest to follow.  The mystic simply builds up a visual image of the 
Realm that is his destination, and moves towards it in this manner.  
This path is simple to understand, but the mystic must already know a 
great deal about his destination - he must know exactly what it looks 
like - before he can attempt to reach it.  Even small details left out 
of the mystic's visualization can move him to the wrong place.
 
The Middle Path is the Heart Path, or the Path of Emotion.  It is the 
path Dreamspeakers, Verbena and Stargazers most often follow.  Travelers 
on the Heart Path try to put themselves in the correct emotional state 
or mood to reach a certain destination.  They seek to make their mental 
state embody the nature of the Realm they are traveling to.  In the 
proper mind set, the mystic is drawn to a Realm as if by a gravitational 
force.  The mystic must strain to maintain the proper mental state until 
they arrive at their destination, however.
 
The High Path is the Path of Ideals.  This path is the most flexible, 
but also the most difficult to understand.  Rather than seeking to 
visualize her destination directly, the mystic seeks instead to find 
certain symbolic concepts associated with her destination.  When seeking 
a Realm of Cold, the mystic might seek out Ice or North, or symbols 
associated with these concepts - such as a chemical equation for an ice 
lattice, or road signs pointing north.  Hermetic Mages visualize certain 
arcane symbols associate with their destination.  The mystic refines her 
symbol set until it exactly represents the desired Realm, at which point 
she arrives.  This path is most useful for exploring the Astral Umbra, 
by combining different symbolic forms to arrive at a new place.
 
Some mystics believe that any Realm conceivable can be reached in Astral 
Plane, given enough time.  While this may be true, it is not easy.  
Certain large Astral Realms have a sort of "gravitational" pull.  As the 
mystic's thought-state approaches that of the larger Realms, even just 
in passing, she finds herself drawn toward the Realm, and only firm 
concentration will hold the mystic away.  This draw can be useful as 
well, as the mystic need only get within a certain "distance" of her 
destination before her thoughts are naturally pulled into the state 
which will cause her to arrive.
 
In additional, frequent travel to certain Realms has cut Furrows or 
tracks of a sort in the Astral Plane.  A mystic whose mental construct 
crosses one of these Furrows may find her train of thought stuck in a 
rut.  She will naturally be drawn along the thought path of that 
particular Furrow, until she reach the Realm at the end of that path.  
It takes a great deal of mental energy to "jump out" of such a Furrow, 
and back toward her original destination.  On the other hand, Furrows 
can be very useful if the mystic can find one headed toward the correct 
Realm, as they make the task of concentration much easier.
 
Finally, there are numerous minor paths through the Astral Umbra.  Minor 
Astral Path consist of a collection of mental states one must follow to 
reach a specific Realm.  Mystics catalogue these thought patterns for 
use in future travel.  The knowledgeable mystic can reach a given realm 
by visualizing the fixed sequence of symbols, visions and emotions of 
these minor paths.
 
Off the beaten track, the Astral Umbra is a formless white void, a blank 
slate of sorts.  The mystic can stumble for a long time through the 
trackless white, occasionally coming across loose thought-form which 
fade as suddenly as they appear.  After enough searching the mystic will 
eventually get back to one of the established paths, Realms or the 
Penumbra.
 
Giving the complexity of Astral travel, many mystics acquire some sort 
of guide, spirit or otherwise.  When travelling in groups, the most 
experienced traveler leads.  The leader concentrates on the necessary 
thought paths, while the rest of the group keeps their minds relaxed.  
The followers will find that they are drawn forward in the leader's 
mental wake, and need make no effort to travel.  Groups that all try to 
concentrate on their destination may find that minor variations in their 
thought patterns will draw them in different directions.
 
Certain Umbral travelers, particularly Technocratic Mages, finds the 
conceptual method of traveling the Astral Plane bizarre and repulsive.  
These travelers often build some sort of Astral Vessel for use in 
plumbing the depths of the High Umbra.  These Astral Vessel have psychic 
hardware that handle all the necessary conceptualization for travel.  
The pilots of these vessels need only enter a set of coordinates, and 
the Astral Vessel will move toward the correct Realm.  Astral Vessels, 
with their mechanical thinking, cut particularly deep Furrows, and their 
rapid transit can cause violent eddies in the Astral plane.  Other 
mystics are horrified at the degree to which Astral Vessels pollute the 
rest of the Astral Plane.
 
 
 
The Near Tempest
 
Of the Three Worlds, the Near Umbra of the Lower World is by far the 
harshest.  Known as the Tempest, it is a bleak and untameable realm, 
tossing the hapless traveler hither and yon.  A traveler without the 
necessary knowledge has no control what-so-ever over how he moves in the 
Tempest.  He can only hope that the violent storms of that realm will 
eventually toss him on some stable shore; some never find safety.
 
Most of the Tempest consists of a vast storm.  Sometimes the mere threat 
of a downpour lies on the Horizon.  Other times the storm bursts forth 
in full fury.  This storm rages over of variety of landscapes, all of 
them dreary.  Sometimes the Tempest is a murky black sea, barren desert, 
an impenetrable swamp, a dense, forboding forest or a forsaken moor.  
The terrain shifts from one type with little rhyme or reason, and none 
of them seem to lead anyplace.
 
Only the knowledgeable traveler can navigate the Tempest.  Wraiths that 
are trained in the art of Argos, known as Harbingers, are familiar with 
the subtle pulls and patterns of the Tempest, and can find their way 
through the murk.  Most travelers are force to rely on Harbinger or 
spirit guides.  The fabled Ferryman of the Tempest are the most sought 
after, for they are the surest and safest guides, though it is said 
their price can be steep.
 
There are a few paths, knowns as Byways, that the dead have built 
through the Tempest.  Byways are solid roads through the storm and can 
be followed by anyone.  Most Byways go from one specific Realm in the 
Tempest to another, and they are often patroled by those with an 
interest in it.  Many Byways lead to Stygia, an immense city of the dead 
and capital of the Iron Kingdom, Empire of the Western dead.  The 
Tempest erodes the Byways, and they require constant maintenance.  It is 
said that only dead souls have enough plasmic solidity to hold against 
the storm for long, and this is the material of choice for construction 
in the Underworld.
 
One other stable path through the Tempest is the river Styx.  It is said 
the Styx is mystically connect to every stream and river in the living 
world.  The Styx forms a comparitively safe and stable route through 
much of the Tempest.  The dead have in fact formed small communities 
along its shores, and traders ply its waters.  At the mouth of the Styx 
lies the city Stygia, and its soldiers will patrol the lower waters of 
the river for intruders and enemies.
 
For more information on the Tempest, see the Wraith rules, p. 39, or The 
Sea of Shadows Book, pp. 19-37.
 
 
 
The Near Umbral Realms
 
While a few mystics enjoy exploring the raw vistas of the Near Umbra 
itself, most pass through it on the way to one of the various Umbral 
Realms that lie within it.  Each Umbral Realm is a separate spiritual 
world.  Realms vary greatly in size, shape and character.
 
For the most part, mystics must traverse the Near Umbra, High, Middle or 
Low, to reach the different Umbral Realms.  There are a few direct 
passages, however.  These passages are called Spirit Gates, or Portals, 
and they can directly connect two Umbral Realms, an Umbral Realm and the 
Penumbra, or even (rarely) an Umbral Realm and the physical world.  
Usually these Portals were created with a specific purpose in mind.  
Often they are hidden, and almost invariably they are guarded.
 
Each Umbral Realm is separated from the rest of the Umbra by a barrier 
resembling the Gauntlet.  This barrier is called the Pericarp.  The 
thickness of the Pericarp is different for each Realm.  Sometimes it is 
so thin as to be barely noticeable, while other times it is thick enough 
to be nearly impentrable.  The thickness may depend on the way the 
mystic is traveling as well.  Some Realms are easy to enter, but very 
hard to leave.
 
The Umbral Realms of the Near Umbra, often called Near Realms, are 
closely related to the Earth in some way.  They can be dangerous and 
confusing, and definitely bizarre, but they are never immediately fatal 
to mystic travelers from the Earth.  Usually they are reflections or 
expressions of some earthly concept.  This is not the case for Realms 
deeper in the Umbra, which can be completely inhospitable to Terran 
spirits.
 
A complete description of every Realm in the Umbra is impossible.  The 
possibilities are infinite.  Some of the more widely known Realms are 
detailed below.
 
 
 
The Near Realms of the Living Umbra
 
The Garou have explored the Living Umbra more thoroughly than another 
other mystics from Earth, and they describe thirteen major Realms in the 
Near Umbra.  Some of these Realms are in fact so specific that they are 
nearly inaccessible to non-Garou.  Erebus is a Garou hell, that can 
cleanse their souls of taint, while the Legendary Realm manifest both 
the ancient legends and homelands of the different Garou tribes.  
Wolfhome is a mirror of the physical world, in which the Garou are 
forced to remain in wolf form until they better understand its nature.
 
Some of the Thirteen Realms are connected to forces of the Weaver, Wyrm 
or Wyld.  The Flux is a Realm of powerful Wyld energy, ever changing, 
while the Cyberrealm is an advanced technological manifestation of 
Weaver energy.  The Scar is a manifestation of the Wyrm's polluting 
power, while the Atrocity Realm and the Battleground are manifestations 
of the evils that men do both to individuals and in war.
 
Some of the Thirteen Realms do not fit neatly into any category.  
Arcadia Gateway seems to be a long forgotten "back door" from the Near 
Umbra to Arcadia.  Pangaea is a reflection of the primordial Earth, in 
the age before man walked the world.  The Aetherial Realm is on the 
border of the Near Umbra, with manifestations of each of the Celestial 
bodies and Anchorheads into the Deep Umbra.  The Summer Country is said 
to be a reflection of the peace and beauty of the world before the 
physical and spirit worlds were sundered, but it is so difficult to 
reach that many believe it to be a myth.
 
For more details on the Thirteen Near Realms of the Garou, see the 
Werewolf book, pp. 172-4, or Umbra: the Velvet Shadow pp. 24-105.  There 
are very likely other Realms in the Living Umbra, unknown to the Garou.
 
 
 
The Near Astral Realms
 
Mages are the Umbral travelers most familiar with the Astral Plane.  
They recognize several important types of Astral Realms.
 
The most familiar Realms those the mages have constructed themselves .  
Called Horizon Realm, Mages carve them out of raw substance of the 
Astral Plane as safe havens to perform their magick.  These Horizon 
Realms require a great deal of power to maintain, and mages need the 
strength of one or more Nodes just to keep the Realm in existence.  The 
exact nature of a Horizon Realm is limited only by the power and 
inclinations of the mages who constructed it.  Horizon Realms are 
carefully hidden and protected, and are often only accessible by Spirit 
Gates.
 
The most common Astral Realms are the various Concept Realms, or Epiphs, 
each the reflection of some idea derived on Earth.  Some reflect the 
Heavens and Hells in the minds of man, though the true after-lives are 
said lie elsewhere, perhaps in the Lower World.  Others mirror abstract 
mathematical ideas.  Each realm embodies a single idea, and mediation in 
such a realm can lead to deeper insight into that concept.
 
Also of importance are the nine Shade Realms, each associated with one 
of the different spheres of magick.  The Shade Realms reflect the nature 
of their sphere, and are inhabited by spirits whose power is that of the 
sphere.  Given the tremendous potency of these Realms, their exact 
locations are a well kept secret.
 
It is known that the Shade Realm of Forces is guarded by the powerful 
Doissetep Chantry, while the Shade Realm of Entropy is held by the House 
of Helekar, an aged Euthanatos Chantry.  It is believed that the Shade 
Realm of Matter is guarded by the Technocratic world of Autocthonia.  
Some Virtual Adepts claim that the Shade Realm of Correspondence is in 
fact the Digital Web, while some Dreamspeakers claim that the entire 
Umbra is the Shade Realm of Spirit.  It is also believed that each Shade 
Realm is but a reflection of a more powerful Shard Realm, the true home 
of each sphere, which lies in the Deep Umbra.
 
For more details on the Astral Realms, see the 2nd Ed. Mage book, p. 22, 
25 and 239, and the 1st Ed. Mage book, pp. 38-40.
 
 
 
The Near Realms of the Tempest
 
Realms in the Tempest must be forged, and only raw soul energy has the 
power to stave off the might of the storm.  The mighty city of Stygia is 
perhaps the most famous Realm in the Tempest, and also the most common 
destination for travelers.  There are also several Waystations along the 
Stygian Byways, safe havens where travelers can rest temporarily.
 
There a number of minor Realms or Shifting Zones in the Tempest, which 
the unwary traveler can stumble upon.  In some, Shades of the long dead 
reenact some violent occurence in their pasts.  Others are traps of 
malignant Spectres, waiting to draw their prey down to Oblivion.  Most 
of these Realms are small and ephemeral; there is little safety in the 
Tempest.
 
Far beyond all other Realms in the Tempest lie the Far Shores.  The Far 
Shores are numerous afterlives of the dead, believed by some to be the 
ultimate destination of the soul, and by others to be clever traps by 
greedy spirits.  In ages past the Far Shores sent emmissaries to Stygia 
and the Shadowlands, but now the hostility of the Iron Kingdom prevents 
this.  No one knows for certain what happens in the Far Realms, but 
rumors of spirit wars and strange angelic or demonic spirits abound.
 
For more details on Realms in the Tempest, see The Sea of Shadows, pp. 
22-27.
 
 
 
The Horizon
 
At the far edge of the Near Umbra lies the Horizon, also called the 
Membrane.  Like the Gauntlet, it separates the immediate spiritual 
atmosphere Earth from the more alien Realms of the Deep Umbra.  The 
Horizon is difficult to cross, with good reason.  The Deep Umbra is a 
deadly place, and the unprepared traveler would not survive the 
transition.  There are also powers from beyond the Horizon too powerful 
or dangerous to be safely contained in the Near Umbra, and the Horizon 
prevents their entry.
 
The only easy pathways through the Horizon are various weak points in 
the Membrane called Anchorheads.  Like Nodes and Caerns, these are sites 
of power, and are usually under someone's control.  Anchorheads are 
controlled by powerful spirits more often than the supernatural races of 
Earth, though there are exceptions.  It is possible to slip into the 
Deep Umbra through these portals, if the mystic can get the permission 
of the Anchorhead's Guardians.
 
In the recent decades, some mystics claim that they have witnessed a 
frightening phenomon.  These mystics say that the Horizon is retracting, 
moving inward, and more and more of the Near Umbra is slipping out into 
the void.  This phenomenon is most pronounced in the Astral Plane, but a 
few say it is happening to a lesser degree in the Middle Umbra as well.  
One by one, Near Realms are being pulled through the Horizon out into 
the Deep Umbra.  Some of the larger Realms survive the transition, but 
others are destroyed.
 
The exact cause of the retraction are unknown.  It could be caused by 
the same forces hardening the Gauntlet.  Some Mages claim it is a plot 
of the Technocracy to push the spirit world still farther from Earth.  
Others say it is the work of powerful malevolent spirits from the Deep 
Umbra pushing in, hoping to breach the boundary and enter the Gaian 
Realm.  Many mystics scoff at the very idea, saying that the position of 
the Horizon is as immutable as the Gauntlet.  If the retraction is 
indeed occuring, it could be another sign of the coming apocalypse.
 
 
 
The Deep Umbra
 
Beyond the Horizon lies the Deep Umbra.  Many mystics compare the Deep 
Umbra to the depths of space, and the analogy is an accurate one.  The 
very environment of the Deep Umbra is dangerous, and only the most 
powerful mystics or travelers in some sort of protective vehicle have 
any hope of surviving.
 
The vastness of the Deep Umbra staggers the mind.  Unlike the Near 
Umbra, no set paths cross the Umbral depths.  The mystic plumping the 
Void had best know exactly where she is heading, because a traveler can 
wander for all eternity in the Deep Umbra and never find anything but 
unending darkness.  In the Near Umbra, a mystic can stumble about and 
eventually run into some path or another.  In the Void, a lost traveler 
is lost forever.
 
In the Deep Umbra, the boundaries between the Three Worlds again break 
down.  Travelers in the High, Middle or Low Umbra may find themselves 
slipping from one layer or another, and their return journey may be 
strange indeed.
 
 
 
The Far Realms
 
Umbra Realms lie within the Deep Umbra as well.  Unlike the Near Realms, 
the Far Realms need have nothing to do with Earth, and can be totally 
incomprehensible in nature.  The mystic may find his mind and body 
instantly shredded by entry into these Realms unless they have great 
resevoirs of power.
 
Some Far Realms are truly immense.  It is likely that some of these 
Realms surround worlds of their own, with their own Horizon, Near Umbra, 
Near Realms and Gauntlet.  A few mystics claim to have reached such 
worlds, but they are not widely believed.  More have attempted such a 
journey, never to return.
 
Mages believe that the Shard Realms, true manifestation of each of the 
nine Magickal Spheres, lie somewhere in the void.  Some mages believe 
the each Shard Realm is associated with a particular planet in the Solar 
System, but none of them have ever been able to agree on exactly which 
planets.  The Shard Realms are said to be so alien, that only the 
Oracles can enter them safely.  The Garou speak of Celestial Realms, 
associated with the different planetary bodies, and these may or may not 
be the same as the Shard Realms.
 
The Garou believe the ultimate manifestations of the Weaver, Wyrm and 
Wyld lie somewhere in the Deep Umbra.  The center of the Weaver's Web, 
the Vortex of the Wyld and the Wyrm's dark Realm of Malfeas are hidden 
somewhere in the Void.  These Far Realms have tendrils reaching back 
into the Gaian Realm.  Garou particularly fear that Malfeas has outposts 
in the Near Umbra, allowing easier access by the Wyrm's minions.
 
The great Umbral Courts of the spirits are also said to lie in the Void.  
By various counts, they number three or four.  The Western Court houses 
the gods of myth from the Western world, while the Eastern Court holds 
their Oriental counterparts.  The mysterious Egyptian somehow remains 
aloof from both East and West, making its own way.  The Dreamspeakers 
believe in the Lodge in the Sky, a court consisting of the displaced 
native spirits from throughout the world, in uncomfortable allegiance 
agains the most vigorous Eastern and Western courts.
 
The True Heaven and True Hell, if they exist, are said to lie in the 
Deep Umbra.  Their exact nature is a mystery, even to the deistic mages 
of the Celestial Chorus.  Some claim that they are a reflection of the 
good and evil in all earthly religions, while others say that they are 
beyond human conception.
 
Mages are sometimes trapped in special Paradox Realms.  Though no one is 
certain, it is widely believed that these Paradox Realms lie in the Deep 
Umbra.  No one has ever been able find such a Realm independent of 
Paradox backlash, however.  Mages that escape from Paradox Realms 
immediately return to the Realm, while mages that do not escape are 
never seen again.
 
There are rumors of Realms stranger still.  Alien dimensions where time 
and space operated in radically different ways, and physical laws are 
turned on their head.  Vast realms filled with hideous beings not so 
much evil as utterly alien from all things human.  Remnants of ages long 
past on the Earth, and ages that perhaps have never been.  A few Umbral 
Travelers, Nephandi and Marauders in particular, claim to have traversed 
such realms.  Judging by the results, the mystic's sanity may be the 
price of entry.
 
 
 
The Deep Tempest
 
One mystery of the structure of the Umbra is what the outer levels of 
the Tempest are like.  Explorers of the Tempest have never found the 
equivalent of the Horizon in their travels.  As such, no one really 
knows what lies beyond it.  Some mystics believe simply that no one has 
ever pushed far enough to find the Lower World's Horizon, but others 
consider a darker possibility.
 
It may be that the Underworld has no Horizon at all.  The Far Shores may 
in fact lie at the edge or in the depths of what would be the Lower Deep 
Umbra.  Given that it is widely believed that the Three Worlds merge out 
in the Deep Umbra, this is a frightening possibility.  The Underworld 
may be a "back door" into the Gaian Realm, though which horrors from the 
Deep Umbra may slip all the way through to the physical world.  If this 
is true, it may be fortunate indeed that the Shroud is less permeable 
than the Gauntlet.
 
 
 
The Zones
 
A few Umbral Realms defy simple categorization.  Called Zones, these 
Realms seem to permeate the entire Umbra, from the physical world out to 
the Deep Umbra, and through all Three Worlds.  Some mystics believe that 
Zones are Umbral Realms like any other, with an unusually large number 
of Spirit Gates connecting them to different places.  Others believe the 
Zones are special, somehow transcending the usual boundaries.  A few 
mystics believe that the Zones are in fact distinct layers of the Umbra, 
much like the Three Worlds.
 
Given that the Zones permeate the entire Umbra, some mystics try to use 
them as short cuts for travel from one part to another.  This is not as 
easy as it sounds.  Though most zones connect in many places, these 
connections do not always follow discernable laws.  A mystic rarely has 
control over where he will enter or leave a Zone.  Often a mystic will 
not physically enter a Zone, only projecting his conciousness into it.  
This is especially true of mystics entering the Land of Dreams or the 
Digital Web.  The mystic must return to his body when he leaves the 
Zone.
 
One of the better known Zones is the Digital Web, an idealized Virtual 
Reality, like the Net of cyperpunk fiction, formed out of spiritual 
rather than digital energy.  The playground of the Virtual Adepts, it is 
a believed to be a relatively new Realm.  Much of the Digital Web is 
still "unformatted", waiting for explorers to define its nature.  The 
Digital Web has connections to most powerful computers in the physical 
world, the Pattern Web of the Weaver, the Cyberrealm, Autocthonia and 
various Horizon and Concept Realms in the Astral Plane.
 
Another well known Zone is the Realm of Dreams.  Arguably, this is the 
best travelled part of the Umbra, for sleepers enter it every night.  
The laws of the Dream World and strange and unfathomable; everything 
seems possible.  An ordinary sleeper can enter and leave it without 
harm, but the mystic trying to consciously chart his path through the 
Dream Lands is taking great risks.  There are powerful inhabitants of 
this world, and they do not like meddling in their affairs.
 
A careless mystic may accidently step through to the Mirror Zone while 
crossing between worlds.  Most mystics are aware of this danger when 
crossing the Gauntlet, but in fact it can happen when crossing any 
Umbral boundary.  Just beside but not quite the same as our reality, the 
Mirror Zone is a universe with a important differences.  Friends can 
become enemies, political powers can change, and reality can change in 
any number of subtle but frightening ways.  Some mystics say that there 
are many Mirror Zones, each reflecting unresolved possibilities or 
realities that might have been.  Return from this alternate universe can 
be a task indeed.
 
The last well known Zone is but a rumor, but if it exists, it would be 
useful indeed.  Called the Null Zone, it is said to be the back drop of 
Reality.  Described as either of vast network of interlocking tunnels, 
or an endless field of uniform gray, the Null Zone provides reliable 
connections to different places though out the Tellurian.  Unlike other 
Zones, the knowledgeable mystic can control exactly where he enters and 
exits, and thus can travel anywhere.  It is so difficult to enter and 
exit the Null Zone that is must be a path of last resort.
 
For more details on the different Zones, see the 2nd Ed. Mage Rules, p. 
24, or Umbra: the Velvet Shadow, pp. 108-114.  You may also want to look 
at the Digital Web book.  These are by no means a complete list of all 
the Zones in existence.
 
 
 
Supernaturals and The Umbra
 
The different supernatural creatures interact with the Umbra in 
different ways.  Each species has a special relationship with the Umbra.  
There are certain generalizations that can be made, but like all 
stereotypes, they only go so far.  The Umbra is a place of individuals, 
and there each being ultimately approaches the Umbra in her own way.
 
Vampires have the least to do with the spirit world.  Many of them are 
unaware of its existence.  Those vampires that do interact with the 
spirit lands tend to do so in a limited and specific fashion.  One 
vampire might have the power to summon ghosts, another the power to call 
animal spirits.  Auspex gives a vampire a limited perception of the 
spirit world.  It only allows a vampire to see beings in the Umbra that 
are actively seeking to view or affect the physical world.  Such spirits 
are "close" enough to the Gauntlet that the vampire can perceive them.
 
The Garou (and the other Changing Breeds) are perhaps the ultimate 
spirit travelers.  Some mystics believe that the Garou are in fact 
spirits made flesh.  All Garou naturally have the ability to step into 
the spirit world, and most werewolves believe it is their duty to 
protect the Umbra from incursions of the Wyrm.  Garou are naturally 
inclined toward the Middle Umbra, and spend most of their time there.  
Many of them are unaware of the existence of the Upper or Lower Worlds, 
though a few can walk those paths.
 
Mages as a group have a wild variety of powers.  Most are aware of the 
existence of the Umbra, but not all of them can travel it.  Those that 
can tend to have truly potent spiritual power.  Mages have the greatest 
flexibility when it comes to interacting with the Umbra, and are famous 
for carving out spiritual Realms of their own.  Most Mages are inclined 
toward the Astral Plane, but Mages are nothing if not meddlesome.  If so 
inclined, they will invade the Middle and Lower Umbras, and not a few 
have paid for their hubris with their lives.
 
Wraiths have little choice but to deal with the Umbra; it is where they 
reside.  Wraiths exist exclusively within the Lower World, though most 
would be happy to leave.  In fact, Wraiths have a great deal of 
difficulty affecting the physical world, trapped as they are within the 
Underworld.  Few Wraiths are aware of the existence of the Middle and 
High Umbras, but rumors persist of secret paths between the worlds.
 
The interaction between Changelings and the Umbra is most mysterious of 
all.  Changelings have both a physical and spiritual side, their Mortal 
Seeming and their Faerie Kith.  Because of their innate spiritual side, 
Changeling can sometimes interact with spirit world.  Because their 
spirit form is tied to a mortal body, they find it difficult to actually 
leave the physical world.
 
Changelings have a special connection to one type of spirit called 
Chimera, and always perceive and interact with them as if they had 
physical form, though Chimera are invisible and immaterial to everyone 
else.  Changelings can occasionally see other spirits as well, mistaking 
them for some strange Chimera.  Other times they are oblivious to 
spiritual presences.  Fae weapons cut through spiritual boundaries, and 
are capable of harming creatures on the other side of the Gauntlet or 
Shroud.  Exactly when and how Changelings can affect spirits seems to 
change under different circumstances, and the Changelings themselves 
seem not to notice these changes.


-- 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Paul Strack            |  Madness takes its toll.
pfstrack@email.unc.edu |  Please have exact change.
