Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
From: zcacmea@cs.ucl.ac.uk (Mark Antill)
Subject: Upgrade Your HIT Marks (was HIT Marks?)
Date: Fri, 31 Mar 1995 10:07:17 GMT
Organization: University College London

>J. Raynor -
>        Yes, I support the vat grwn brain / body shell HIT Mark production
>process.
>        I was speaking of a cyborged Iteration X mage that another person
>mistook for a HIT Mark.
>
>BTW - Speaking of interchangeable parts, does anyone out there have any ideas
>on "special" little items to add to HIT Marks?  Here are some ( top of my
>head here..)
>- Have one of the forearms conceal a coiled metal which can be charged with
>electricity when in use and is articulated enough to wrap around things and
>hold on.        Replaces claws
>- Have the It X'ers place fiber-optic laser pistols that discharge through
>the pupils.  These "High stealth" HIT Marks hsve no chain guns, and are used
>in situations where it may have to fire without ruining it's flesh shell for
>later use.  The best laser systems operate just above or below the visible
>light spectrum. Replaces Chaingun
>- Full Automated HIT Mark.      Immune to Mind effects and totally immune to
>any mental effects from Vampire Disciplines or Werewolf gifts.  Are fully
>affected by technology oriented magick, gifts, and disciplines.  May have
>some
>Dex or mental penalties.

As it happens, a friend and I did some stuff like this when I used some
HITers in a fuzzy games. For those who are vaguely interested, here it is.



BUILD A BETTER HIT MARK
-----------------------

The Iteration X book mentions that the HIT Mark V is customisable. Here are a
few examples and ideas.  Some of these modifications are fitted by other
Conventions, usualy in multi-Convention Constructs.


Technically some of these mondifications are beyond, or do not fit into,
mudanes science. But thats also true of HIT Marks anyway. Thats what 
technomagick is all about.

Phased Motion Detector
----------------------

Description: Detects movement in the surrounding area by the disburbance of air
molecules that the movement causes. This appears as a small circle on the
HIT Mark's HUD, with distubances appearing as blips on the display.

System: The HIT Mark rolls Perception + Alertness, difficulty 7 to detect
any moving object within a 30 yard radius. If the object is moving quickly
then reduce the difficulty to 6. Arcane rating reduces the perception dice
pool as normal, and if the target is Awakened and employing a power to avoid
detection (Invisibility Rote, Obfuscate, etc) the HIT Mark must beat the
number of sucsesses they scored when activating the power to detect it.

Kirlian Visor
-------------

Description: Often fitted by Void Engineers, the visor despite its name is 
in fact a modification to the HIT Marks optical sensors to allow it to see
large disturbances in the Umbra. Iteration X dislikes this modification
being made, but cannot deny its efficientcy for attacks on Garou Caerns or
Dreamspeakers. However, the Computer has ordered that all HIT Marks with
such modifications have their memories wiped after all such operations.

System : On a sucsessful Perception + Alertness roll, difficulty 8, the HIT
Mark can see Umbra attacks, Materialising spirts and side stepping Umbral
travelers.

Optical Gun Enhancement
-----------------------

Description: A small camera is fitted to the HIT Mark's gun, and the image
it produces may replace the HIT Mark's normal vision.

Sytem: This works in a similar way to a scope, giving the HIT Mark an extra
3 dice to its firearms dice pool. However, as its vision is now rather
limited it recieves a +1 penalty on all vision related Perception rolls.

Recoil Suppresion
-----------------

Description: Most HIT Marks have a system to reduce the recoil from any
weapons they carry. Generaly the weapon has a certain amount of lateral
movement within the arm cavatiy, sometimes supplemented by gas vents and the
addition of the HIT Marks own powerful 'muscles'.

System: All recoil modifiers are reduced by 1. This applies to multiple shots
in a turn as well as three round bursts and full autos.

Enhanced Reactions
------------------

Description: This upgrade consists of upgrading the HIT Mark's on board
computer with a faster, parallel procsesing one. The computer is given a
greater than normal degree of control over the HIT Mark's reactions. In
addition the motor systems are replaced with a faster pseodo-muscular design
that consits of fiberous materials that contract when an electric current is
passed through them. This upgrade is most common on non-human HIT Marks.

System: The upgrade can be given on two levels. Each level gives the HIT
Mark one extra dice in both Wits and Dexterity, and one extra action a turn
(as Time 3 or Celerity). However for the limbs to move at greater speed the
HIT Mark has to be lightened. For each level of upgrade it loses two levels
of armour rating.

Weaponary
---------

There are many alternatives to the basic chaingun and claws version. Here
are a few. Note that some HIT Marks whit arm mounted weapons have removable
hands, or special joints below the wrist that allow the hand to swival out
of any weapons line of fire.

Flamethrower IX - 42
--------------------

This is an arm mounted weapon that replaces the chain gun on the arm. These
are commonly fitted when vampires have been targeted for deletion.

Difficulty	Damage	Range	Rate	Capacity
    6           Napalm   70      1         15 turns

Any hit to the body doing more than 5 health levels of damage has a 40%
chance of detonating the fuel tanks. This increases by 10% for every extra
health level inflicted. Damage is as Napalm and effects a 1 yard radius per
turns wirth of fuel left in the HIT Mark.

'Sprinkler' IX - 24
-------------------

This is a similar design to the basic chain gun. However some of the barrels
are altered so that they do not fire straight forward but at an angle. This
is often fitted when the target has been determined to have powers of
invisibility or obscuring sight, as the large spread of the weapon increases
the chances of it hitting.

Difficulty	Damage	Range	Rate	Capacity
    9             5      50      21       200

As the gun sprays over such a large area it is highly inacurate with single
shots. However when firing at a high rate it becomes increasingly more
deadly. As a resalt the normal difficulty modifiers for multiple shots,
bursts and so on are _subtracted_ from the difficulty. Sprays are a base
difficulty 4, and increase by 1 for every two yards sprayed.

The firing mechanism of this gun should not 'work'. However, as long as it
remains concealed within the HIT Mark's arm there is no paradox problem.

Finger Missile IX - 105
-----------------------

These are small smart missiles concealed within the finger. When they are
fired the outer shell, including the skin and nail, falls off revealing the
missile.

Difficulty	Damage	Range	Rate	Capacity
    5             12     400     4         4 per hand

The fingers repalced in this manner cannot bend normally and the hand has
very little manual dexterity. As a result it is usually passed of as
artificial.

High Velocity Rifle IX - 37
---------------------------

As primium bullets are so expensive for Iteration X to manufacture, using
them in a chain gun is considered inefficient. Against the more dangerous
Awakened targets this weapon, and its deadly amunition , is often fitted.

Difficulty      Damage  Range   Rate    Capacity
    7              8     300     1         50

The full capacity is rarely taken up with primium. Normaly only about half
are convetional rounds. Silver or incenderay are sometimes used as well.
Primium rounds cause aggravted damage.

Grenade Launcher IX - 304
-------------------------

Another popular replacment is the grenade launcher. This is most commonly
used when assaulting heavily armoured or defened positions. Iteration X
manufactures all the basic grenade types, as well as several unique varities
of their own.

Difficulty      Damage  Range   Rate    Capacity
    6          Grenade   450     1         15

Laser IX - 1001
---------------

Powerful laser technology has been avaliable to Iteration X for some time.
However, such small lasers of such great power are still not accepted in
static reality and their use can cause paradox. As a result this is most
often fitted to HIT Marks that are stationed in constructs or Horizon Realms.

Difficulty      Damage  Range   Rate    Capacity
    6              8     2000    1      Unlimited

The weapon is still undergoing testing and modification. If fired for more
than three turns in a row it will start to overheat. Each additional turn it
is fired the damage dice is reduced by one. For every turn it is given to
cool down, one dice of damge is restored.

The weapon can also gain paradox. Every time a sleeper sees it fire the HIT
Mark gains a paradox point. It it gets too many it will rapidly start to
malfunction and break down, starting with the laser.

Primium Claws
-------------

Sometimes the tungsten claws are replaced by primium. This means that they
inflict aggravted damage.

Shock Touch
-----------

This device is used on the Mark IV and the Mark VI. On the Mark V, it 
delivers a powerful electric shock to the target, via the claws. As primium 
is non-conducting it  can only be used in conjunction with the stamdard claws.

It deals four dice damage per charge, and the HIT Mark usualy has 6 charges.
Damage is rolled and soaked seperately from the claw attack, although on hit
roll is made for both.

Whirring Blades
---------------

Some HIT Marks are modified exclusively for close assualt. A favoured
variation is powerful spinning bladed weapons, normaly concealed within the
arms. Some of these blades may be primium coated, causeing agg. damage. 

Difficulty	Damage
    8         Strength+7

