From: tyagi@houseofkaos.abyss.com (mordred)
Newsgroups: alt.magick.tyagi,alt.magick
Subject: Alt.Virtual-Adepts FAQ
Date: 17 Jan 1995 20:37:34 GMT
Organization: Portal Communications (shell)
Reply-To: AShtoN@netcom.com (shub)]
NNTP-Posting-Host: jobe.shell.portal.com
Summary: It is the often abusive answers to often lame questions, ya lump!
Keywords: AI: Process, Review. Adept: Review. Inept: Read. Sleeper: Ignore.

[from ftp site: AShtoN@netcom.com (shub)]

Archive-Name: adepts/faq
Last-Modified: 1994/04/01
Version: 1.03
Approved: answers-request@crystal.net

            Thee Hackers at The Gates of Reality

The progenator of this file was written by Dante (@crystal.net) 
some years ago (even before he started destroying city blocks).
This revision has been made by ashton@netcom.com after I 
convinced his news AI, Neut, that the file was hopelessly out of 
date and that Dante was not going to supply any updates. (Hi, Neut!)

This FAQ gets sent out to every node when it's updated but the 
beings who need to see it the most are the Inepts. So, if your
seeing this again it just means that you haven't been downgraded to
looser status (yet).

1. Why are y'all so rude?

Because if your reading this your probably a Rodent. :>
The one liner for the VA's could be "Does not work well with others."
The key to the tradition is ELITENESS.

2. What are the VA?

Whelp ... no easy answer to that one! Roughly, we're a group of 
Mages who have discovered the true nature of reality. But, then, 
any group of Mages will tell you that! Our model of reality is one 
that can be created with computers and electronics. We can apply
these principles to the Real World [tm] creating changes that 
sleepers deem impossible.
  Not all Virtual Adepts use computers, some use calculators, and 
some even use VCRs (now, that IS weird! The tapeheads have good
cultural archives, though) The basis is manipulating 
information. Change the information and you change reality.

3. Who are the Traditions (aka The Good Guys) ?

The nine flavors of Tradition Mages have formed an uneasy alliance
to resist the destructive influences of the Technocracy.

Akashic Brotherhood: (mind)  martial arts, zen
  Good techniques long, long ago, but things change too fast today
Celestial Chorus: (prime)  witch hunter, priest, theologian
  Didn't god die hundreds of years ago?
Cult of Ecstasy: (time) musican, drummer
  Fun, but one dimensional (but fun)
Dreamspeakers: (spirit) shaman, hitchhiker, ecologist
  The dirtheads could get somewhere with a wee bit of science.
Euthanatos: (entropy) voodoo, mortician, assassin, doctor, scholar 
  You die, the girl dies, everybody dies!
Hollow Ones: (none) blood doll, occultist, artist
  Dreary loners dressed for their funeral  (they got the 'tude down, though!)
Order of Hermes: (forces) alchemist, kabbablist, scientist, forces
  Mystics and Fuzz heads that seldom look up from their dusty books.
Etherians: (matter) mad scientist, gadgeteer
  These dudes rock! They scan like bad sci-fi but they get it going!
Verbena: (life) druid, witch
  No wonder witches have been burned for centuries!

4. What is the Technocracy (aka The Bad Guys) ?

We used to be members of the Technocracy ... so very few of the Good 
Guys trust us now ... we still think too much like Technomancers for
most of the PalioMages. And since we hurt the Technos so much getting
out they now give us target bonuses!

Syndicate: 
New World Order: 
Void Engineers: 
Iteration X: 
Progenitors: 

5. Who actually likes me for being an VA ?

VERY FUNNY! Next question ...

6. What is Ascension ?

For us, Ascension is Eliteness.
One of the things that makes us so different is that we believe 
in giving everyone a cut.  The tools are for those who can pick
them up and use them ... and if they blow themselves up with it,
so much the better for the gene pool! The spread of the tools
and techniques shows us what is viable and gives us valuable feedback.
Who'd have thought that the trogs  would start making copy machines 
net ready and ethernet/modem cards so quickly?
The old reality is flopping around in it's deaththrows right now ...
We built the framework for Reality V2.0 back in the 50's and have
just been working to get society ready. Some of our adepts have
picked July 5th, 1998 for a transition date.

7. How do I contact you guys ?

Don't worry, you already have (unless your a lurker with a read only brain!) 
Neut processes all of Usenet and Thee Shub reads just about everything ... 
Try cybermind or alt.conspiracy if you actually want an answer :>

8. What am I supposed to believe in here ?

Believe whatever you want! If this had been written in the Fifties 
it would be false now. Information mutates. Information and the 
Process is all that matters. This information that you are reading 
right now is mutating as it fits into the framework you are 
generating for it ... If some of the information is viable then you
will re-transmit it.

9. What's with your attitude?

My attitude! What's with yours?
Seriously, attitude will get you far ... Question everything!
You are the ultimate authority because of your processing power.
If you don't like my attitude (or you just can't match it) then
maybe you should stuff your shirt and join the Hermetics or
paint yourself blue and join the Verbena.

Game Over, man ...

(k)allisti 1995, Copy/Swipe/Cutup as thou Wilt.
