

From server@wizards.com Mon Oct 11 19:55:29 1993
Received: from yang.cpac.washington.edu by mail.nada.kth.se (5.61-bind 1.4+ida/nada-mx-1.0)
	id AA28088; Mon, 11 Oct 93 19:55:22 +0100
Received: from ginkgo.omnigroup.com by yang.cpac.washington.edu
	(5.65/internet->uucp gateway 2.4.2) id AA20542; Mon, 11 Oct 93 11:57:38 -0700
Received: from tapir by omnigroup.com (NX5.67d/NX3.0M)
	id AA19109; Mon, 11 Oct 93 11:54:40 -0700
Received: by wizards.com (NX5.67d/NX3.0M)
	id AA00363; Mon, 11 Oct 93 11:54:38 -0700
Date: Mon, 11 Oct 93 11:54:38 -0700
Message-Id: <199310111852.AA01725@next12pg2.wam.umd.edu>
Comment: Mailing list for "Mage: the Ascension"
Originator: mage-l@wizards.com
Errors-To: netsec@wizards.com
Reply-To: mage-l@wizards.com
Sender: mage-l@wizards.com
Version: 5.5 -- Copyright (c) 1991/92, Anastasios Kotsikonas
From: John Walter Biles <johnbil@wam.umd.edu>
To: Multiple recipients of list <mage-l@wizards.com>
Subject: Virtual Adept Tradition Book
Status: RO

Tradition Tome:  Virtual Adepts

History:  The virtual adepts began as a splinter of Iteration X, the  
information technomancers.  Iteration X developed a faction in the  
early nineteenth century that was interested in information using  
machines.  They invented a difference engine similar to Babbage's by  
the 1830s.  Setting up a research facility in the Near Umbra near  
Bristol, they began improving the machine.  By the time Babbage  
created his machine, they had vaccum tube machines.  It was at this  
point that the idea of virtual reality began to spread among the  
sect.  They realized that the universe could be viewed as a giant  
computer and all of reality was one big data set that could be  
manipulated by the appropriate changing of ones and zeroes.  They  
allied with the syndicate to promote the "invention" and spread of  
computers by the mundanes.  By 1930, they had computers equal to the  
best known today among the mundanes.  By 1950, the Virtual Chantry  
went on-line.  In the seventies, the Virtual Adepts openly defected  
after Syndicate agents realized what the Virtual Adepts were doing,  
but it was too late to halt the spread of computers.  Now in the  
1990s, the Virtual Adepts have access to computers that dwarf any  
known to the mundane world.  


Goals:  1.  Open the minds of humanity to new experiences and ways of  
seeing the world.
        2.  Promote the spread of computer technology with the  
eventual goal of creating a virtual reality net or nets accessible to  
the non-awakened.
	3.  Battle the efforts of Iteration X to warp humanity's  
bodies, of New World Order to warp its mind, of Syndicate to warp  
humanity's souls, and of the Void Engineers to warp humanity's  
home(the solar system).
	4.  Learn, learn, learn!
	5.  Break the grip of the static reality of modern science.

Philosophy:

     Reality can be viewed as a giant multi-dimensional matrix, in  
which each level of the matrix represents a level of perception or  
existence.  Quintessence is the energy which flows through this  
matrix and keeps it connected and in existence.  Most humans operate  
only at the level of mundane existence.  An awakened individual has  
learned to access data from the other levels.  The spirit world, or  
Umbra is a data level that is parallel to that of the  
physical/mundane world.  What we percieve as physical objects are  
actually multi-dimensional arrays of data.  Once you learn to  
percieve a particular type of array, you can alter the data in it, by  
"flipping the bits".  The ancient concept of yin and yang was  
right--the ancients merely misunderstood how it worked and how to  
make practical use of it--you simply interpret yin as one binary  
state, and yang as the other--0s and 1s.  By flipping the bits, you  
can change an object's motion, physical state, composition, etc.   
This merely requires an act of will, once the appropriate data is  
perceived.  This is easier with the use of a computer to help model  
the necessary changes for you.  To move yourself or an object , you  
simply move the data to a different location in the array. By  
changing the level on which it is stored, you can move objects  
between the spirit and physical world, and so forth.  By finding a  
level of the matrix that is not being used, virtual realities can be  
created by changing their data contents and then finding a way to  
enable people to access this level of the universal Matrix. 

     

     Each reality has its own operating system.  This makes up the  
rules of that reality.  The minds of its inhabitants are constantly  
rewriting the operating system.  It is possible to bypass the  
operating system and monkey with the hardware, but some operating  
systems have built in programs, known as paradox programs, that try  
to prevent this.  Physical reality has very effective paradox  
programs, but they can be tricked by deviating from the operating  
systems approved operations as subtly as possible.  By masking your  
actions as an approved one, it is possible to evade the attention of  
paradox programs for long periods of time.  One of our goals is to  
rewrite the Operating System of physical reality.  This will require  
the cooperation of the sleepers.  

     

How the Spheres work:
Correspondence:  Since the universe is a multi-dimensional array, and  
all physical entities are merely collections of data in it, data need  
merely be copied or transferred to new locations in the array to  
achieve the effects of this sphere.  The technical term for this  
array is the Universal Matrix.  Computers are especially good at this  
sort of task. 


Entropy:  The Universal Matrix contains random elements.  However,  
these elements are only apparently random.  They are actually the  
result of chaotic systems, which can be predicted to some degree.   
They are random within limits.  By the proper examination of the  
Matrix, they can be manipulated and controlled by the proper  
manipulation of bits. Computer modelling can facilitate the use of  
this sphere.

Forces:  Forces are one of the three primary data array types of the  
Matrix.  They are the most dynamic data type.  Their array of data is  
constantly in flux.  By altering components of these arrays, energy  
can be summoned, channeled or removed.  However, to create new  
energy, knowlege of Prime is necessary to channel the quintessence to  
create a new data array.  Access to a source of electricity can  
facilitate the channeling of the quintessence, while use of a  
computer to model the energy flow can also aid the adept in control  
of forces.

Life:  Life data arrays are the second of the primary data array  
types of the Matrix.  They are the second most dynamic data type.  To  
create a new life data array recquires knowledge of Prime to channel  
the quintessence to create a new data array.  By manipulating the  
data stored in the array, the properties of a life form can be  
altered and by scanning their array, many things can be learned about  
the lifeform.

Matter:  Matter data arrays are the third and least dynamic of the  
primary data array types of the Matrix.  As with the other primary  
data types, alteration of properties can be done without knowledge of  
Prime, but some skill in Prime is needed to channel quintessence to  
create a new data array.  The use of a computer can facilitate  
analysis and alteration of a matter data array.

Mind:  The mind of any creature is a computer in itself.  Minds exist  
within the Matrix as a collection of data normally accessable only by  
the Will, which is similar to a CPU.  Essentially, they are isolated  
systems that only interact with the outside world through the senses,  
despite being part of the Matrix.  The mind gains its data from the  
senses, which fill the roll of I/O devices.  However, to a trained  
VA, the mind can be accessed by outsiders, and not just by the Will.   
The more complex the mind, the more difficult it is to access and  
alter.  The effect known as astral projection or untethering does not  
really disconnect the mind from the physical data set that it is  
normally associated with, but rather creates a virtual body that it  
becomes attuned to.  Virtual bodies interact with each other, but can  
ignore the limitations of the physical world.  The virtual body  
remains linked to the physical body, and severance of this link can  
have grave consequences.  Computer modeling of the targeted mind can  
facilitate proper modification or analyisis of the target.

Prime:  The universal matrix is powered by the flow of prime, also  
known as Quintessence.  By altering the flow of quintessence, one can  
store quintessence within your own "battery", create new data arrays  
in the Matrix, absorb Quintessence from naturally occuring batteries,  
known as Nodes, Remove the Quintessence from a data array, causing it  
to lose properties, or increase the natural flow of Quintessence  
through a data array.  The vast Computing power of the Virtual  
Reality Network(which is accessable through a computer) can  
facilitate this difficult task.

Spirit:  There is a level of the Universal Matrix known as the Spirit  
realm, or Umbra.  Creatures known as spirits exist primarily on the  
Spirit level of the Matrix and can only enter the Physical level for  
brief periods of time.  It is subdivided into Near and Far Umbral  
regions.  Each Near region is seperated by a construct known as a  
Gauntlet.  This security construct attempts to prevent the passage of  
data between the Physical level and the Spirit Level.  It is weakest  
around nodes and Garou caerns.  Training in this sphere can enable  
one to sneak data past the Gauntlet into or out of the Near Umbra.  A  
similar security construct isolates each near umbral region from the  
Far Umbra.  This construct is called the Horizon.  The Spirit level  
uses a different operating system from the Physical realm, and is  
much more easily manipulated.  Defeating these security constructs  
can be quite difficult, and can be facilitated by use of the V.A. VR  
network and a computer to access the network.  


Time:  One aspect of the Universal Matrix that differs from Computer  
systems under static reality, is that time is an accessible dimension  
of the Matrix as well as an experienced one.  A properly trained  
virtual adept can access temporal levels of the Universal Matrix  
other than the one on which his consciousness currently resides.   
With enough skill, one can even transfer one's own data set into a  
different temporal level of the Universal Matrix.  However, no one  
has ever returned from a trip into the "past" levels of the matrix,  
although it is easier to recover data from "past" levels than  
"future" ones.  



Rotes:
{To avoid Redundancy, Rotes in the Mage rules are simply listed with  
Page #}
For Next Loop: Correspondence 4, Life 4, Forces 2 p. 220.
Personal Compression: Correspondence 5, Life 3 p. 220
Play Back:  Correspondence 2, Time 2.  p.221
Semi Auto CAD CAM:  Correspondence 5, Matter 3 p. 221
Remote Prime Link(VA version of Hymn of Beatific Harmony) Prime 3  
Corr. 4 p.226
Umbral E-Mail(Va Version of Leap Sideways)Corr 3 Spirit 3  p.227

Remote Picture:  Correspondence 4 Forces 2  

This effect enables the VA to cause an image to appear on any TV set  
or computer monitor that he knows of.  It can be anything that fits  
on the screen and is within the capability of the system hardware to  
produce.  With Forces 3 and Prime 2, you can even do it on a  
monitor/TV that is turned off or not plugged in or even broken.  You  
can do sound also, if the machine has sound capabilities.

Remote Power Feed: Correspondence 4  Forces 2 or 4.
This Rote enables the mage to tap a power supply elsewhere to get  
lesser or greater forces to manipulate in some manner without having  
Prime 2.  It can also be used to Feed forces away from the area the  
VA is in to some other area.  


Pretimed Mailing:  Correspondence 3  Time 3  

This rote enables the VA to teleport somewhere(Chosen when cast) at a  
pre-determined time(Chosen at casting) regardless of the state of  
health/consciousness/ desire of the Mage.  If Correspondence 4 is  
used, other people can be effected. 

 

Portable Sun:  Correspondence 5 Forces 2  

This opens a portal to a location where the sun is shining and pipes  
through real sunlight under the mage's control.  It can be used as a  
spotlight, to simply illuminate an area, or to make Vampires run very  
fast.

Crash System:  Correspondence 4 Entropy 3
This rote enables the adept to crash a computer that he knows of the  
existence of.  The more successes, the more damage.

Virus:  Correspondence 4 Life 4
This lets the VA make someone horribly ill as if they had a very bad  
virus.  It does 3 levels of damage per success.  Anyone the VA knows  
of can be effected with enough successes.

Remote Link  Correspondence 3  Matter 4
This enables the VA to remote access a computer that has no modem by  
creating a wireless modem hooked into the computer at the site.  


Power Surge:  Correspondence 3  Forces 2
The VA can wreck a computer by producing a power surge of electricity  
from a distance.  Surge Protectors may force the need for extra  
successes and if it isn't plugged in, you can't do it.


Virtual Adept Factions:
There are several approaches taken by the Virtual Adepts to the goals  
of the group.  The major factions are the Hackers, NetExplorers,  
Programmers, and Populists.

Hackers:  

The Hackers are interested in computer warfare.  Their primary focus  
is on the 

war with the Technocracy.  They develop new and interesting ways to  
break into, crash, alter, and otherwise mess with computer systems.   
Mental Attributes are Primary, Physical second, Social third  
typically.  Hackers especially focus on the spheres of Entropy and  
Forces in addition to Correspondence.

Hacker Stereotype:
Disciple
Str 2 Dex 3 Sta 3 Cha 2 Man 2 App 2 Per 3 Int 3 Wits 4
Alertness 2 Awareness 1 Intuition 1 Subterfuge 1 Drive 1 Firearms 1   
Research 3  Technology 4(Computer) Computer 5(Hacking) Cosmology 1   
Enigmas 2 Investigation 2 Law 1 Science 2  

Correspondence 3  Entropy 2  Forces 2
Avatar 2  Arcane 2 Mentor 1 Node 1
Arete 3   Willpower 5  


Adept
Str 2 Dex 4 Sta 3 Cha 2 Man 2 App 2 Per 3 Int 4 Wits 4
Alertness 2 Awareness 1 Intuition 1 Subterfuge 1 Drive 1 Firearms 2   
Leadership 1 Research 3  Technology 4(Computer) Computer 5(Hacking)  
Cosmology 2  Enigmas 3 Investigation 3 Law 2 Occult 1 Science 3  

Correspondence 4  Entropy 3  Forces 3  Life 2 Matter 3 Mind 1 Prime 2   
Time 2
Avatar 3  Arcane 3 Mentor 1 Node 1.
Arete 5   Willpower 8

Master:
Str 2 Dex 4 Sta 3 Cha 2 Man 3 App 2 Per 3 Int 4 Wits 5
Alertness 2 Awareness 2 Intuition 1 Subterfuge 1 Drive 1 Firearms 3   
Leadership 1 Research 3  Technology 4(Computer) Computer 5(Hacking)  
Cosmology 3  Enigmas 3 Investigation 3 Law 2 Occult 2 Science  
4(Physics)  

Correspondence 5  Entropy 4  Forces 4  Life 3 Matter 4 Mind 2 Prime 3   
Spirit 2 Time 3
Avatar 4  Arcane 3 Node 3  Talisman 3
Arete 8   Willpower 10


NetExplorers:
The NetExplorers are the architects and explorers of the Virtual  
Reality system the Virtual Adepts are building.  They also are  
interested in exploring the Umbra.  They are the mystics of the VA,  
seeing the Umbra as an example of the kind of reality the VA hope to  
create through Virtual Reality.  Mental first, Social second,  
Physical third.  They focus on Spirit and Prime.

Disciple
Str 2 Dex 2 Sta 2 Cha 3 Man 3 App 2 Per 4 Int 3 Wits 3
Alertness 1 Awareness 2 Intuition 1 Subterfuge 1  Drive 1 Etiquette 1 

Firearms 1  Meditation 3 Research 3  Stealth 1 Survival 1 Technology  
2 

Computer 3 Cosmology 3  Enigmas 2 Occult 1
Correspondence 3  Spirit 3 Prime 1
Avatar 2  Dream 2 Mentor 1 Node 1
Arete 3   Willpower 5  


Adept:  

Str 2 Dex 2 Sta 2 Cha 4 Man 3 App 2 Per 5 Int 3 Wits 3
Alertness 2 Awareness 3 Intuition 2 Subterfuge 1  Drive 1 Etiquette 1 

Firearms 1  Meditation 4(focusing) Research 3  Stealth 2 Survival 2  
Technology 2  Computer 3 Cosmology 4(Near Umbra)  Enigmas 2 Occult 2  

Correspondence 4  Matter 3  Mind 3 Prime 4 Spirit 4 Time 2
Avatar 2  Dream 2 Mentor 2 Node 2
Arete 5   Willpower 8  

 

Master: 

Str 2 Dex 3 Sta 2 Cha 4 Man 3 App 2 Per 5 Int 4 Wits 3
Alertness 2 Awareness 4(spirits) Intuition 2 Subterfuge 1  Drive 1  
Etiquette 1 

Firearms 1  Meditation 5(focusing) Research 3  Stealth 3 Survival 2  
Technology 2  Computer 4(retrieving Data) Cosmology 5(Near Umbra)   
Enigmas 3 Occult 2  

Correspondence 5  Entropy 2 Forces 2 Life 1 Matter 4  Mind 4 Prime 5  
Spirit 5 Time 2 

Arcane 1 Avatar 3  Dream 3  Node 3
Arete 9   Willpower 10  

 

Programmers:
The Programmers write the programs and design the hardware used by  
the Virtual Adepts.  They are the most practical of the groups.   
Mental first, Social second, Physical third.  They focus on  Matter  
and Time.

Disciple:
Str 1  Dex 2  Sta 3  Cha 2  Man 3 App 3  Per 3  Int 4  Wits 3
Awareness 1  Expression 2  Intuition 2  Drive 2  Etiquette 2   
Firearms 1 Research 3  Technology 4(computers)  Bureaucracy 2  
Computer 4(Programming) Enigmas 2  Law 1  Occult 2  Science 3
Correspondence 3  Matter 2 Time 1
Arcane 1  Avatar 2  Library 1 Mentor 2 Node 2  

Arete 3  Willpower 5

Adept:
Str 1  Dex 2  Sta 3  Cha 3  Man 3 App 3  Per 4  Int 4  Wits 3
Awareness 1  Expression 2  Intuition 3  Subterfuge 1 Drive 2   
Etiquette 2  Firearms 1 Research 4(computer science)  Technology  
5(Computers)  Bureaucracy 3 Computer 5(Programming) Enigmas 3  Law 2   
Occult 2  Science 4(Physics)
Correspondence 4  Entropy 3 Forces 3 Matter 3 Mind 2 Prime 2 Time 3
Arcane 2  Avatar 2  Library 2 Mentor 2 Node 3  

Arete 5  Willpower 8
  

Master:
Str 1  Dex 2  Sta 4  Cha 3  Man 3  App 3  Per 4  Int 5  Wits 3
Awareness 2  Expression 3  Intuition 3  Subterfuge 2 Drive 2   
Etiquette 2  Firearms 1 Meditation 1 Research 5(computer science)   
Technology 5(Computers)  Bureaucracy 3 Computer 5(Programming)  
Enigmas 3  Law 2  Occult 3  Science 4(Physics)
Correspondence 5  Entropy 4 Forces 4 Life 1 Matter 5 Mind 3 Prime 4  
Spirit 1 Time 4
Arcane 3  Avatar 3  Library 3  Node 4  

Arete 8  Willpower 10


Populists:  

The Populists seek to bring computers to the people.  They promote  
computer literacy, the development of cheaper and better computer  
technology, and the idea of Virtual Reality.  They are the front of  
the VA seeking to bring about change in the sleeper population.   
Social first, Mental second, Physical third.  They focus on Mind and  
Life.  


Disciple:
Str 1  Dex 2 Sta 3  Cha 4  Man 3  App 3  Per 3  Int 3  Wits 2
Awareness 2  Expression 4(Journalism)  Intuition 2  Streetwise 1   
Subterfuge 2  Drive 2  Etiquette 3  Firearms 1 Leadership 3  Research  
2  Technology 2  Computer 2  Culture 2  Law 1 Science 1
Correspondence 2  Mind 2  Life 2
Allies 3 Avatar 2  Contacts 3 Library 1  Mentor 2 Node 1
Arete 2  Willpower 7

Adept:
Str 1  Dex 2 Sta 3  Cha 4  Man 4  App 3  Per 4  Int 3  Wits 2
Awareness 2  Expression 4(Journalism)  Intuition 2  Streetwise 2   
Subterfuge 3  Drive 2  Etiquette 4(Business)  Firearms 1 Leadership  
4(Mage Chantries)  Research 2  Technology 2  Computer 3  Culture 3   
Law 2 Linguistics 1 Science 1
Correspondence 4  Entropy 1 Forces 2 Matter 3 Mind 3  Life 3  Prime 2   
Spirit 1  Time 1
Allies 4 Avatar 2  Contacts 4 Library 2  Mentor 4 Node 2
Arete 5  Willpower 9

Master
Str 2  Dex 2 Sta 3  Cha 5  Man 4  App 3  Per 4  Int 3  Wits 2
Awareness 3  Expression 5(Journalism)  Intuition 2  Streetwise 3   
Subterfuge 4(Finding Weaknesses)  Drive 2  Etiquette 4(Business)   
Firearms 2     Leadership 5(Mage Chantries)  Research 3  Technology 3   
Computer 3  Culture 4 (Politics)  Law 3  Linguistics 2 Science 2
Correspondence 5  Entropy 2 Forces 3 Matter 4 Mind 5  Life 4  Prime 3   
Spirit 3  Time 1
Allies 4 Avatar 2  Contacts 4 Library 2  Mentor 4 Node 2
Arete 5  Willpower 9

The VA population is about 30% Hacker, 10% NetExplorer, 40%  
Programmer, and 20% Populist.  Populists tend to hold the leadership  
positions.  


The Virtual Chantry
The Physical Hardware of the Virtual Chantry is located in Omaha,  
Nebraska.  It is based in the basement of a wealthy Virtual Adept  
Homer "The Bard" Johnson, a Populist.  He owns a chain of small  
computer stores:  Home Computer Center, Inc.  It is linked into the  
tangle of phone lines in Omaha and can be accessed by any Virtual  
Adept who knows its location or phone number.  It exists as both a  
"scientific" Virtual Reality based in the mundane realm, and a  
magical one based in the Near Umbra in a Realm fed by the Node  
Homer's house is sitting on.  

It contains a massive number of databases, virtual meeting places, a  
virtual university for VA, and several experimental areas.  


The Realm has ratings of: Correspondence 5  

                          Entropy 0(Mages are discouraged from using  
this for 

			  fear of disrupting the realm)  

			  Forces 3
			  Life 5
			  Matter 5
			  Mind 3
			  Prime 5
			  Spirit 3
			  Time 3

Different sections of it have different themes.  Different of the  
Fellows of the chantry have constructed Mansions, Esherite  
constructs, Medieval Castles, and Spaceships as dwellings/workplaces.   
The accesspoint from the Node places you in a construct that  
resembles the gate room(a closet, essentially), but the door opens  
out onto a level plain with stairs leading underground and many  
things floating in the sky connected by ladders and staircases.  The  
Realm has no innate gravity.  You will it to pull you the direction  
you want to go.  This realm is highly malleable to the human will.   
The virtual adepts hope to create a fully functional virtual reality  
that will enable even non-mages to experience what life under these  
conditions is like.  




Virtual Adept Talismans

The Prodigy
This is a desktop machine with the processing power of a Cray.			
Correspondence:5  Spatial Mutations	
Correspondence:4  Remote Data Read (Allows the computer to read data
                                    from other computers and  

                                    electronic storage media 

				    wherever they are. This effect is  

                                    a joint
				    effect with the Forces 2 power}
Time:3  Time Dilation(Accelerate Time)
Forces:2  Remote Data Read {used in conjunction with Corr. 4 above}
Mind:1 Multi-Tasking

VR Goggles
These goggles enable the wearer to access a virtual representation of  
their current environment with different kinds of data available.   
Typically these goggles have a level 1 sensing power.  Most are  
designed to resemble sun glasses.  


