Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
From: mib@cyberspace.org (The Man in Black)
Subject: VOID ENGINES
X-Nntp-Posting-Host: global.soc.hawaii.edu
Organization: New World Order
X-Newsreader: Yet Another NewsWatcher 2.0.6b4
Date: Wed, 8 Nov 1995 02:16:09 GMT

I'm takin' a break from all that NWO crap for a while, gotta flamewar to
run doncha know. Meantime here's a couple of violent void engines from the
Technocracy. (I think I'll make some anime style pilots for the Void
Engineers one day)

As always I ask that anyone who uses this stuff email me a brief synopsis
o' what transpired.

VOID ENGINE FIGHTERS

VEF-0 Scrambler
This one man attack craft is a standard Void Engineer fighter. It is
designed for upper atmospheric and orbital defense. It is powered by a low
tempature fusion plant and uses ion thrusters to propel itself. The design
is sleek and ovoid, with close swept rounded wings. It is armed with two
neutron pulse cannons (6 megawatt range) and a  eigtht hardpoints in a
retractable bay for missiles or bombs. The flight controls are totally
automated and includes a neural linkage to the pilot.

The scrambler is typically deployed from larger Void Engine Carriers or
Void Engine Bases and only has an effective range of 75,000 miles. It
carries a Horizon Manar that detects spiritual activity and use of magic
for immense distances in the deep umbra, with interference drastically
reducing range in the near umbra.

VEF-00 Super Scrambler
A two man fighter designed for multiple purposes, it is essentially a
larger version of the VEF-0 Scrambler. There are many variants on the
Super Scrambler design (reconnaissance VEF-00-V Vigil Scrambler; long
range exploration VEF-00-X Scout Scrambler; space superiority, VEF-00-A
Talon Scrambler; strike VEF-00-S Swoop Scrambler; training VEF-00-T etc.).
The Super Scrambler is powered by a quantum flux powerplant and uses the
wave function of the quantum engine for propulsion. The super scrambler
design is ovoid, but much more disklike than it's smaller cousin, the
VEF-0. The standard armament is two neutron pulse cannons (6 megawatt
range), two Phase Beam Emitters (18 megawatt range), and two retractable
bays of six hardpoints (one on each side), variants may have more or less
armament depending on function.

The Super Scrambler has a standard 450,000 mile range and in some variants
is capable of ranging anywhere in the solar system and back. The VEF-00 is
used primarily for offensive missions and can be equipped with a
holographic projector to make it appear as a typical sleeper aircraft. 

UP NEXT: The Stratos Design Bureau

The Man in Black is : call sign :King Karnage:
Novus Ordo Seclorum * Annuit Coeptus * E Pluribus Unum
http://intlrel.soc.hawaii.edu/NWO
"Keep on whining about IC: Posts!"
