From: moolick@shrsys.hslc.org
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: The Void Engines
Date: 16 NOV 94 18:32:02 GMT
Organization: MIT PLASMA FUSION CENTER
NNTP-Posting-Host: shrsys.hslc.org


The Void Engines.
        These vehicles are one of the crowning acheivments of my convention's
scientific progress.  I can confidently say that they have no equal in
performance ot utility.  They have, over the past three decades especially,
become the main deep probe and transport devices of the Void Engineers.
        Periodic exposure of current designs has been proceeding over the
past century.  There are enough beleivers that the devices are almost
paradox free.  Furthermore, the introduction of "Stealth" technology has
enables us to use them right under sleepers' noses.  The following is a
discription of our craft for the landbound.
        The Void Engines are sleek ovoid craft.  A quick inspection shows
them to be made of a smooth, seamless, brilliantly reflective metal, a Void
Engineer material called Celestium.  Celestium is a memory metal, and as
the vehicles changes speed and direction the confirmation of the metal
changes to maximize aerodynamic factors and propulsion.  Indeed, the metal is
an integral part of the craft's uniqe propulsion system.
        The Void Engines are propelled by systems unlike any in current sleeper
use.  The technology is based upon the wasping of the continum and alteration
of spatial curves, the theories of which too classifies to be released here.
The craft's surface defines an envelope of "stable space" around which the
alteration are made.  By strethcing space on one end of the craft and
contracting it at the other, the space the vehicle is in is moved.  This
is different than the vehicle moving through space, and allows speed
and maneuverability that is physically impossible otherwise.  Instantaneous
changes in speed and direction are possible, without worry of G-forces
which plague conventional aircraft.  The largest present problem with in
atmosphere flight is friction.  Even though Celestium is nearly frictionless
flight can heat it to several thousand degrees on the surface, and burn it
away slowly over a period of years.  Flight above mach eight is therefor
an aunauthorized proceedure in all non-experimental cases.
        The Celestium releases it's pent up energy as light, heat, and
radiation.  This can reach damaging doses for those who cartelessly fly low
without engaging the stealth systems.
        The stealth systems increase the seal integrity of the ship's
space.  Electromagnetic energies radiating from the ships encounter a
phenomona similar to light trying to escape a black hole's event horizin, and
are quickly re-absorbed by the celestium hull.  External electromagnetic
radiation is bend around the vehicle, exiting from the warped space at angles
and times corresponding to that whouch would have occured in the normal
environment without the vehicle's presence.
        Pilot:  Only Void Engineers have the training to handle these
craft in flight.  The pilot interfaces with the vehicle's computer
systems by sitting in a special "neural induction field seat", which we
devised with Progenitor assistance.  This, combined with a mental action which
is not dissimlar to entering the Digital Web ( Correspondence *, Mind * )
allows reaction times well above those physiological possible in
conventional flight systems.
        Cargo Capacity: The Void Engines have little cago space and with good
reason, ask and Void Engine pilot and he'll tell you ( "These puppies ain't
third class freight. )  The largest engines can accomidate about ten people or
one and a half tons of cargo.
        Top speed - Atmospheric Mach 8  ( Computers cut of anything faster )
                    In Void - Classified ( Hint, warp something )
        Maneuverability: 9  ( Capable of "Impossible" maneuvers and flight
in any direction as well as hovering.  Authoization to land except in
Technomancer controlled areas is rarely granted, and the computers won't
allow it without authorization. )
        Range:  Classified.  Known to be "Quintessence Guzzler", costs
at least 3 points of quntessence per hout to keep flying.
        Fuselage:       The Celestium hull gives the Void Engines two
dice of countermagick against magickal assault.  Celestium's harndess
provides four dice of armor, and the spatial envelope of a flying whip gives
it four more.  In stealth mode, a attacks involving lesser forces are routed
around it.  The vehicles have eight soak dice.  Damage levels are:
        OK x 3, -1, -2, -3, -3, -4, -4, -5, Destroyed.  Modifiers apply to
maneuverability.
        Weapons:        Void Engines are unarmed, as they are not combat craft.
Pilots are under orders to avoid conflict.  Pilots and passengers can use
magical attacks however.  Most commonly lasers or memory/consciousness
dedening attacks are used.
        Note - The Void Engines operate not only in air and space, but undersea
as well.  This is unusual as oceanic exploration is usually handled by
task-specific vehicles.

Notes from Ian Wilkes, Void Engineer convention ambassador.

Mike Moolick
