     The mage in my chronicle is a Virtual Adept.  He is forced to come 
     face to face with vampires, werewolves and all the assorted nasties 
     that exist in a a incorporated WoD setting.  He is not very powerful 
     (in his opinion) and is always complaining about how he should be able 
     to use magic as fast as a werewolf is able to jump his ass or quick 
     enough to pre-empt a vampiric assault.  I say, his requirement of 
     computers is necessarily limiting, especially since he must "write" 
     programs for effects, and even in the case of rotes already stored, it 
     is still going to take the computer time to call them up and run them. 
      He says this is not fair, and he should be able to use 
     voice-activated controls and even eye-movement-actived controls so 
     that his effects are as instantaneous as those of other mages.  We had 
     a long talk last night, and after having reread Digital Web, Mage, and 
     the Book of Shadows, I have arrived at the following rules for 
     handling the limitations of technological foci:
     
     *  Processing Limits:
        
     Non-Trinary computers do not possess the necessary computing power to 
     produce effects greater than Level Three.  Period.
     
     The "size" of the computer roughly corresponds to computing power, so 
     this will also limit the effects possible:
     
                Laptop                  Level Two
                Message Pad             Level Two
                HP-Calculator           Level One
                Sharp Wizard            Level One
     
     
     Trinary computers don't come in really small packages yet, but even 
     the smallest available have full performance capabilities (see Book of 
     Shadows).
     
     *  Networking:
     
     Almost all Virtual Adepts will have their peripherals (calculators, 
     phones, etc.) networked with their primary focus computer back in 
     their sanctum.  A mage can ignore all the processing limitations 
     listed above so long as a good, uninterrupted connection is made with 
     the main focus computer.
     
     Many things can disrupt a connection long enough to ruin any "effect" 
     program that the mage was attempting to run.  Aside from normal 
     interference of all kinds (and there are MANY, folks), there is always 
     power loss (at either end of the connection), physical damage, or 
     actual separation (Hey!  Give me back my calculator!).  In combat 
     situations, this is VERY IMPORTANT, as dropping one's cellular phone 
     might mean THE END!
     
     *  Speed, Difficulty and Reliability:
     
     Speed is very important.  As most mages create unique "programs" for 
     each desired effect, writing the program takes time.  For each level 
     of spheric complexity, a full turn is required.  This means that if 
     someone wants to create an effect that requires Prime 2/Matter 
     2/Forces 1/Time 1, it would take SIX turns!  (Not bad, really, 
     considering it is Magick!)  This time can be reduced by increasing the 
     difficulty level by +1 per turn of reduction.
     
     Additionally, the actual input devise used would impose limitations on 
     speed (and therefore difficulty) due to the ease by which it can be 
     used.  For simplicity's sake, the actual size of the devise is a good 
     rule of thumb, as the smaller the device, the more difficult it is to 
     ensure that the correct button is pressed, and the less buttons it has 
     available (requiring "double-keying", etc.):
     
                        Message Pad             +1 turn
                        Portable Phone          +2 turns
                        "Calculater size"       +3 turns
                        "Wristwatch size"       +4 turns
     
     Some mages will undoubtfully wish to acquire "power-gloves" and "HUD 
     goggles" to increase their speed.  This seems OK, so long as these 
     characters are able to actually acquire such cutting-edge technology, 
     probably from Sons of Ether friends, or the Pentagon.  Stuff from 
     Radio Shack will not be very useful as it is highly unreliable and 
     inaccurate, to say the least, especially when one considers the 
     incredible perfection necessary to create a technomagick effect.  Such 
     devices should probably incur a difficulty penalty of from +1 to +3, 
     enough of a risk to scare most VA's from simply shopping from the 
     Sharper Image Catalog for their foci gadgetry.
     
     Things like Voice Recognition, Script Recognition, and even more 
     complex stuff should be approached similarly.
     
     *  Use of Rotes:
     
     Rotes will not reduce the difficulty of an effect (that would be 
     philosophically counter-intuitive to the beliefs of the Traditions), 
     but it can assist in speeding things up.  The time requirements listed 
     above would be negated for rotes, allowing someone to simply "program 
     rote numbers" into the recall of their cellular phone, Wizard, or what 
     have you.  Assuming that most mages would know their systems better 
     than the back of their hands, they would have little difficulty 
     quickly pressing the "code" for a needed rote, even when pressed.  
     This is a good rationalization for the VA's having rotes, and trading 
     them so much (perhaps more than all the other Traditions).  They are 
     not innately "better" than newly devised effects, just faster for 
     those who are in a hurry.
     
     *  Failures and Botches
     
     Failure means pressing the wrong key, forgetting the password, and any 
     other number of things that anyone using a computer experiences.  It 
     can also be interference, power fluctuation, or other external 
     troubles.
     
     Botches are the worst, but remember -- they are not the fault of the 
     technology, but rather the intended effect itself.  For technomancers 
     though, the release of pent-up Paradox often affects their devises as 
     easily as themselves, and enduring Paradox can mean lasting "ghosts in 
     the machine" (bugs that can't be worked out, recurring errors, etc.).
     
     For backlashes, Paradox Spirits often attack the very technology used, 
     often undetectable until they are accessed.  Then things can get real 
     hairy.
     
     Quiet for technomancers often involves their devices "playing tricks 
     on them".  Phones pick up odd conversations elsewhere, displays act 
     strangely, mundane programs seem to suddenly work differently, the 
     calculator begins giving wrong answers...
     
     
     All in all, have fun, but keep the emphasis on the spirit of 
     technology.  Even though our mage battles the undead and Garou folk, 
     he depends upon his silicon and cellular link-ups for his abilities, 
     things which he knows he can lose at the perfectly wrong moment.
     
     Aurelius
