From owner-wod-l@netcom.com  Mon Jul 29 04:05:27 1996
Received: from netcom12.netcom.com (root@netcom12.netcom.com [192.100.81.124])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with ESMTP
	id EAA06538 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Mon, 29 Jul 1996 04:05:21 +0200
Received: (from daemon@localhost) by netcom12.netcom.com (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id SAA18334; Sun, 28 Jul 1996 18:42:09 -0700
Received: (from sjwriter@localhost) by netcom12.netcom.com (8.6.13/Netcom)
	id SAA18318; Sun, 28 Jul 1996 18:42:07 -0700
Date: Sun, 28 Jul 1996 18:42:06 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Stephen C. Johnson" <sjwriter@netcom.com>
Subject: Washington Cathedral Chantry
To: For Mages and the Magick they become <MAGE-L@ORACLE.WIZARDS.COM>,
        For a World of Darkness <WoD-L@netcom.com>,
        "For Storyteller's a Resource" <GM-L@netcom.com>
Message-ID: <Pine.3.89.9607281713.A14150-0100000@netcom12>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Sender: owner-wod-l@netcom.com
Precedence: list
Reply-To: wod-l@netcom.com
Status: RO
X-Status: 

	Well this something I've been doing up for my Chronicles and I 
thought I'd contribute it to the lists in part for the WoD City project 
we're all contemplating.


The Washington Cathedral
Cathedral Church of St. Peter and St. Paul, Fortress of Mt. St. Alban

	It sits in the center of Technocratic and Kindred power, a
Fortress of Faith and Hope in the midst of urban sprawl, arrogant uncaring
power and blatant corruption. Created in full view of the public and in
the teeth of Technocratic might, is has lost many battles but triumphed in
those that truly mattered and stands ready to continue the fight. Though
dedicated to the Celestial Chorus, it welcomes mages of all the other
Traditions and crafts. Seeking in unity of purpose the strength to carry
on the fight and to use the diversity of it's members to reach out an help
all while continuing towards victory in the Ascension War. 

The Cabals of the Chantry
	Six Cabals with some Thirty Two mage serve the Cathedral Chantry
(the two terms are functionally interchangeable to the mages) and it's
interests.  Ranging from powerful Masters to stumbling Apprentices; from
prayerful priests to irreverent and rather determined sinners. The
Cathedral protects and nurtures them all, in turn they defend and serve
the Cathedral. 

Paladins of St George most subtle
	Members: Five
	Father Thomas O'Malley (Celestial Chorus, Master)
	Father Adrian Mendsk (Celestial Chorus, Adept)
	Sir Jonathan Whyte (Order of Hermes, Adept)
	Sister Annie Brock (Virtual Adept, Adept)
	Sara Brant (Celestial Chorus, Disciple)

	Background: One of the two original Cabals that tapped and tamed
the Nodes that created the Chantry, the Paladins of St. George most subtle
are both it's Primary defenders and main weapons in the fight against the
enemies that surround them. It's a bit much of a job for five mage,
especially with the Technocracy and Elder Kindred jealous of the
Cathderal's power. Early on mages of the Paladins of St. George most
subtle have been slowly been building a force of sleeper Consors and
Acolytes both as an intelligence network and as a fighting force as
needed. Referred to as the Knights and Squires respectively they are under
the exclusive control of the Paladins of St. George most subtle and beyond
that little is know about them, though the Masters of the Keepers of the
Manifold keys of Knowledge have been known use them on occasion. 

Communicants of the Sisters of Gabrielle
	Members: Three
	Sister Bernadette Veyieves (Celestial Chorus, Master)
	Sister Liane Winthrop (Celestial Chorus, Adept)
	Jane "Cloudwalker" Whitefeather (Dreamspeaker, Disciple)

	Background: While the Paladins of St. George most subtle focus on
the physical defenses of the Chantry, the Communicants of the Sisters of
Gabrielle focus on the defense of the Chantry in the Umbrae. They maintain
the small but extremely well protected Horizon and tend to the spirits and
angels in and around the Chantry as well. Though currently understrength,
they have established a Portal directly to their namesake's Chantry of New
Delos and have an informal agreement of assistance in times of need. It is
also rumored that they have contact with various other supernatural
creatures in and about the community and have aided them in the past. 

Followers of St. Francis
	Members: Four
	Father Lamont Reeves (Celestial Chorus, Disciple)
	Nana Carter (Verbena, Disciple)
	Dr. Elane Smith (Euthanatos, Disciple)
	Jim Banks (Akashic Brotherhood, Disciple)

	Background: Formed shortly after the actual building of the
Cathedral proper had begun, the original intent of Cabal's founders had
been to radicalize the surrounding population as protection for the
Cathedral. One trip into the slums and other lower class dwellings of the
city changed that completely. Today the Cabal and it's members are
dedicated to helping there sleeping brethren throughout the surrounding
community. In a sense however the Cabal has succeeded in the original
intent of it's founders though, so interwoven into the community is the
Cathedral at the direction of the Followers of St. Francis that nothing
short of an Act of God in the form of an Uthra taking direct action could
harm it now. 

Seekers of the Path of Harmony
	Members: Five
	Wyatt James (Akashic Brotherhood, Adept)
	Professor Carl Madox, Phd (Son of Ether, Adept)
	Jennifer Loo (Cult of Ecstasy, Disciple)
	Andrew Stouffer (Hollow One, Disciple)
	Marus Grimes (Verbena, Disciple)

	Background: When the Technocracy realized that they had failed to
stop and then that could neither co-opt or seize the Cathedral outright.
They embarked on a truly vicious application of the Pogrom and managed to
capture a number of Tradition mages in the region in under a day.
Fortunately for both the captured mages and the Cathedral the Paladins of
St. George most subtle were able discover the location of the captured
mages and rescue them. That was the beginnings of the Seekers of the Path
of Harmony as the rescued mages formed a Cabal of their own in association
with the Cathedral. Since that time the mages of the Cabal have acted as a
liaison of sorts with other Chantries and the Traditions in general. 

Keepers of the Manifold Keys of Knowledge
	Members: Four
	Sir Gordon Chen (Order of Hermes, Master)
	Dr. Mentubo Kwatzumi (Son of Ether, Master)
	Mammud al-Alkar (Ali-i-Batin, Master)
	Kakishita, Sonoko (Akashic Brotherhood, Master)

	Background: When the Technocracy seized Cantistel College Chantry
shortly before the First World War the surviving Masters, including Sir
Gordon Chen, went Errant. In the horrific chaos that was the First World
War, Sir Gordon Chen fought bravely and well but when the War was over, he
was but one of the near broken survivors of the fighting. Still Masters,
no matter what their Tradition, are rare enough so a place was made for
him at the Cathedral.  The First World War had created an new generation
of fresh Apprentices as well and it was with them that Sir Gordon Chen
managed to heal his wounds, mental, physical and spiritual. Seeing a need
he created the Keepers of the Manifold keys of Knowledge and with his
fellow Masters has retired to a life of mentoring and teaching younger
mages the mystic arts and the necessary skill to survive, fight and win
the Ascension War. 
	The Masters of this Cabal have settled into a very comfortable and
posh retirement of sorts, teaching and Mentoring the various Mages of the
Chantry.  They find their various Students and Apprentices, by turns, to
be rather agreeably difficult, quarrelsome and problematic; and woe until
the fool, Technocratic, Kindred or otherwise who seeks to harm them while
under their keeping. The members of the Cabal have privately agreed
amongst themselves to step in and protect the Chantry if the necessity
arises, but to otherwise...  enjoy themselves. 

Students of the Mystic Arts
	Members: Eleven
	Dame Penelope Wilkenson (Celestial Chorus, Apprentice)
	David Carter (Akashic Brotherhood, Apprentice)
	Rashid Hajhassen (Ali-i-Batin, Apprentice)
	Dianna Greene (Order of Hermes, Apprentice)
	Christine Merson (Verbena, Apprentice)
	Ahmad Binaie (Order of Hermes, Apprentice)
	Robert Monahan (Son of Ether, Apprentice)
	Kenneth Sylvestri (Virtual Adepts, Apprentice)
	Vasilis Panoutsopolos (Akashic Brotherhood, Apprentice)
	Michael Gobell (Son of Ether, Apprentice)
	Randall Knepp (Hollow One, Apprentice)

	Background: The most transitory of all the Cabals, it's also the
least powerful, if most numerous. Once a member of this Cabal reaches the
abilities of a Disciple of any Sphere they are moved to another Cabal
within the Cathedral or to another Cabal or Chantry entirely. 

Nodes of the Chantry
	Four Nodes, two within the grounds of the Cathedral, provide the
power required to sustain the small Horizon Realm of the Chantry and
protect and defend the Cathedral its self. 

The Bishop's Garden
	Statterlee enjoyed working in the garden as a respite from the
problems besetting himself and the struggling young Chantry. Having had a
small medieval stone gazebo, the Shadow House, built in the garden as the
years passed it became the focus of the Node. Quite early on the
Technocracy scored a victory over the struggling Chantry by using
government authority to insist that the Bishop's Garden be made accessible
to the public. It backfired quite badly however as the faithful poured in
to the garden each day after mass.  Accomplishing by their sheer devotion,
prayer, spirituality and numbers what the desperate Tradition mages could
not. The sheer dedication of all those sleeper wishes, prayers and
devotion has actually chased off a number of Qui La Machinae in the past. 
	Today hundreds tour the garden daily and the Technocracy still
wonders how they can fail so dramatically in all their attempts to
sterilize such a public and open node. 
	Other Specifics: The atmosphere of the garden is very peaceful,
almost holy in it's presence. Invariably during the hottest of Washington
summers there is a cooling breeze blowing through the garden, during the
coldest Winters there is a certain warmth to sustain those who walk
through the paths. The Shallowing of the Node is very powerful here even
when few if any people are present, as more of the faithful enter into the
garden the greater the Shallowing. At both Noon and Midnight the Gauntlet
practically disappears and yet it is extremely difficult for anyone to
wander out of the garden into the Umbra unless they are aware that they
can and wish to do so. 
	The Guardian of this Node is known only to the members of the
Paladins of St. George most subtle and the Communicants of the Sisters of
of Gabrielle and appears to serve as Guardian voluntarily. It appears as a
Throne, an Angel of the inner most circle of Angels of the First Rank,
Eight pairs of golden wings covering a body of eyes, fire and pure white
smoke. Tentatively it might be ranked as a Preceptor, however that may be
accounting it as too weak.  It is present in the Umbra at all times and
occasionally manifests physically to select sleepers, a fact the mages of
the Chantry have gone to great pains to conceal. 

Washington's Statue
	Location & Description: In a little triangular park between
Massachusetts Avenue and Wisconsin Avenue that is technically on Cathedral
grounds is the heavily gilded bronze statue of the young lieutenant
general astride a graceful, well-muscled horse. According to rumor the
sculptor Herbert Hazeltine crafted the horse to be the spitting image of
the famous racehorse Man O' War and the statue was given to the Cathedral
as a gift for where it stands. 
	Almost within days of the statute's unveiling the mages in the
Cathedral knew something odd was happening around and about it. For one
thing it drew many admirers and for another thing mages who were not
members of the Chantry who approached the statue felt themselves gaining
paradox the closer they came to it. Deciding to simply observe the statue
and leave it alone, about three years passed until one stormy night when
the statue strode in through the West entrance into the Narthex to behold
all the seals of the States of the Union inset on the floor before it. As
this was in the midst of a midnight Mass there was some understandable
astonishment on the part of the sleeper worshipers present. 
	According to Urban Legend, and Cathedral records, the Statue
spoke, asking Statterlee a number of questions about the Cathedral and the
country.  Then the Statue drew it's sword and swore to aid, defend and
protect the Cathedral and the country before returning to resume it's
place where it had originally stood. Of course no one believed the
absolutely astonished sleeper witnesses and the one Technocracy attempt to
destroy the Statue resulted in the disappearance of the Technomancers! 
	Since that night a ley line has run directly from the pedestal to
the central Nave, infusing the massive four central pillars and Pulpit
with Quintessence which is then available for the Chantry's use. Everytime
a new State Seal has been added to the Narthex the Statue enters to behold
the Seal, question the mages present about the new State and then return
to the pedestal, the flow of Quintessence then increases. Ever since the
first of these nightly excursions, the missing presence of the Statue has
been "covered" by either the Communicants of the Sisters of of Gabrielle
or the Paladins of St. George most subtle both of whom are the only mages
who can approach the statue and speak to it in the Umbra or to whom the
Statue will speak when active. 
	Other Specifics: Mostly ignored in the rush of traffic, there
appears to be a form of active arcane at work here. When tourists or
others step off of the sidewalks on to the brick walkways or grass they
immediately notice the Statue, or perhaps more appropriately the Statue
notices them. Each person then feels as if they are being judged before
being allowed to either come closer or move on.  Either way the one
Nephandus the Chantry knows of who walked up to the Statue, spray painted
a mystical symbol of evil on the pedestal and then left, was run over by a
metrobus within a block of the Statue, twice. 
	Once a person has entered and been judged they slowly begin to
feel a sense of peace, the quiet before the Storm as many have described
it. If a person remains long enough eventually they will feel a sense of
overwhelming urgency and need to accomplish something of importance in
their life and then depart. Apprentices are occasionally "sent to the
Statue" when having difficulty with their studies, they invariable master
the problem shortly thereafter. 
	The only exception to this is a varied group of apparently
homeless persons who congregate around the Statue and sleep in it's shadow
nightly. The Followers of St. Francis make certain they receive at least
one decent meal a day and blankets and shelter as needed. In turn they
seem to believe they are responsible for the astonishing safety of the
streets surrounding the cathedral. 

The Cornerstone of Congress
	Location & Description: Though the Cornerstone of the building was
officially laid in 1793 by George Washington, it's actual location has
since been lost. It is however the mystical focus for the enormous powers
loosed within the building and the grounds. Statterlee found the
Cornerstone during one of his frequent visits to Congress and negotiated
an agreement with the Guardian of the Cornerstone to tap into it's power. 
	Beyond that little is known about the Node, though supposedly the
Guardianship of the Cornerstone, as well as it's location, is known to the
Paladins of St. George most subtle and is a closely guarded secret. 
	Other Specifics: The impact of having a powerful Node in the
Congress of the United States makes an already strange building...
stranger, eerie even in places. The Technocracy knows that there is a Node
here and that it has been tapped, it's finding it that's the problem.
While the shallowing in the building is not terribly noticable, the
manifestations are. Time does some fairly strange things here, not to
mention the people. Yet this in an arena of political power and corruption
is rampant, though still held in check for the moment. 

The Dog Fighting House
	Location & Description: Located in Western Loudon County, Virginia
it was seized quite by accident from a Nephandus who was attempting to
utterly corrupt the ancient node. Used originally as a weekly meeting
place for Dog Fighting and other cruel ritual killings of animals. It was
the murder of a priest attempting to stop the dog fights which drew the
attention of the Paladins of St. George most subtle to the House and into
instant mortal conflict with the Nephandus within. 
	Once the Nephandus was destroyed the fight to bring the Node back
from the corruption that it was degrading to began. In the end the task
was so great that the Communicants of the Sisters of Gabrielle eventually
had to appeal to Masters of Prime from other Traditions to assist them in
the cleansing.  Eventually with the help of many additional Masters the
Node was cleansed and became available for the use of the Chantry. 
	Since that time the House and grounds have been used as a
religious retreat of sorts, safe house for Tradition mages and with it's
calm serenity a place for the injured to convelese and heal. With all of
the traffic of Tradition mages to and from the house it should be
suspected that the Technocracy has divined the location of the Node.
However the Technocracy has never attacked or even appeared to noticed. 
	Other Specifics: There is an atmosphere of calm serenity that
infuses the House and grounds. If a person meditates too deeply and too
long it is possible to awaken in the Umbra the Shallowing it so great. One
problem is that while the Node appears to be able to aid those who are
healing from wounds;  physical, mental or spiritual. The Node seems to
require that the people around it be of a specifically calm, devout and
accepting state of mind. If a person can maintain this state of being they
can move about the Node without difficult or even heal with astonishing
speed. However the farther one strays from the requisite state of mind the
more difficult it becomes to be near the Node and in two cases the wounds
of the injured have worsened. 

The HorizonJRealm
	Until recently, up to the completion of the physical structure in
1990, the Cathedral had no Horizon Realm. Shortly after the completion
ceremonies however an Apprentice noticed a door in the Wilson Vault where
she did not remember one being. Opening the door she found herself staring
through it at a wind swept rough stone ground with clouds beyond the edge.
Physically dragging one of the utterly dumbfounded Keepers of the Manifold
Keys of Knowledge to the door and flung it open. The absolutely delighted
Master astonished the Apprentice by kissing her on the cheek and stepping
out through the door to begin the shaping of the virgin Horizon Realm. 

Basic Concept description
	The Horizon Realm grounds are currently a surface of roughly 157
acres on top of a granite pillar mesa thrust upwards into the sky,
surrounded by a virtual sea of cloud tops. In the distance, usually
requiring a telescope or binoculars to see at all, there are other similar
near flat surfaces of rock poking out from the sea of clouds that
stretches in all directions. Where the Chantry had obtained access to the
Realm there was nothing but granite, but with Master mages bending their
collective Wills to the task, this has changed. 

Environment description
	Within hours of gaining access to the Realm the granite had been
changed to fertile soil where grass grew and various trees and other
plants began to grow at an astonishing rate. A few days later the sleeper
Master Stone Carvers and Masons who assembled the original Cathedral in
Washington and were maintaining their work and completing the final stone
sculptures, were brought into the Realm and introduced to now staggering
amounts of work ahead of them.  Within a few weeks a Daughter of Ether had
assembled a crude but serviceable Cloudship and sailed to a number of the
relatively nearby mesa's and discovered vast quantities of stone awaiting
quarrying. As well as some other inhabitants of the Realm who were not at
all happy to discover Humans, much less magi, in their midst. 
	In the years that have followed the basic structure of a replica
Cathedral has been assembled in the Horizon Realm. Enough so that three
corresponding portals in both structures have been matched. Beyond the
Cathedral structure have been established a small village worth of dressed
stone buildings for the sleeper craftsmen who have happily moved in to
conduct the task before them. Throughout the rest of the available surface
a forest of fruit and nut trees and other vegetation grows in wild
abundance. While on the apparent northern and southern edges of the mesa,
dock stations have been established for the small numbers of Cloudships
used to move between the scattered mesas now used by the Realm's Human
inhabitants. 
	Two expeditions have scaled down the side of the granite pillar on
which the mesa rests. The first descended into thickening clouds to some
thousand feet before a lack of rope forced them to return. The second
expedition penetrated downwards some two thousand four hundred or so feet
to break through to the underside of the clouds. In the darkness under the
clouds a constant rain appears to pervade on a sea a few hundred feet
farther down. The second descent discovered the sea to be but lightly
salted, almost fresh in fact, and inhabited with enormous creatures that
threatened the group and forced them to turn back. 
	The other mesa's, those not currently inhabited, have proven to be
a source of either stone for construction or worth farming and raising
sheep and other animals for food. This has created a small traffic of
Cloudships within the Realm and a small group of sleeper Cloudsailors has
taken to charting the Realm, venturing out across the Cloudsea when they
can, or dare to more truthfully. 
	The sun shines down with a burnished golden light and at night a
trio of large and luminescent moons wax and wane in their travels across
the sky.  There is a Polestar of sorts in the night sky, but the patterns
of stars are totally new and unrecognizable from those of Earth. The
weather is always warm and mildly breezy during the day, though
occasionally a higher then usual cloud bank will sweep across the top of
the mesa. When that happens the rains fall gently and everything is washed
clean and bright. 

Denizens of the Horizon Realm
	When the first Daughter of Ether ventured out across the Cloudsea,
the first land she put foot on she found to be inhabited. By a very large,
ill tempered, highly intelligent and pissed off Dragon. A Dragon that was
not at all happy to find it's self confronting a Human and even more upset
when it discovered that Human to be a magi. 
	The Daughter of Ether retreated at once to the original mesa and
informed the first available Master she could find with astonishing speed.
The Dragons as well spread word quickly and within their own ranks and
moved to confront the mages by dawn of the very next day. Fortunately
neither side truly wished for a conflict and a peaceful coexistence of
sorts has been worked out. A coexistence that has become much more
comfortable with the introduction of sheep and cattle on other unused
mesas that the Dragons may feed off of in limited but growing numbers. 
	The Dragons have spoken little to the Humans since the mages and
they reached an agreement of coexistence. Some of the Cloudsailers have
reported seeing the Dragons dive into the Cloudsea and it is speculated
that they hunt in the clouds and even down into dark seas under the
clouds. In one case a trio of Cloudsailers was able to rescue a
floundering infant Dragon and get word to other Dragons of the injured
infant. There are also reports of Dragons pacing exploring Cloudsailors as
they strike out across the Cloudsea to chart the Realm. 
	In addition to the Dragons there appears to be an ecology of some
sort active in the Cloudsea itself. Cloudsailers have reported strange
ballon-like creatures rising slightly above the tops of the clouds and
long elongated sinuous creatures with fins or wings as well. Occasionally
Cloudships will be bumped from below in their journeys, but thus far
nothing more then that has happened. In time perhaps someone will
investigate, at the moment both the sleepers and mages are too busy to do
so. 

Other Details
	Currently there are perhaps eighty people in the Realm, though
this number is certain to grow as the Chantry accepts more refugees from
other Horizon Chantries the Technocracy has conquered. The mages
themselves know they did not create this Realm and have only just gained
access to it. The Dragons certainly are not talking, though given time and
increasingly good relations the mages certainly they will. 
	Magick is mostly coincidental in the Realm, save for extreme forms
of Technology and Technomagicks. Interestingly computers seem to be immune
to this difficulty with Technology and Technomagicks, though there are
only a handful in the Realm. The Cloudships are not technomagick per se,
they are a result of a fortuitous accident. When the Master mages first
began shaping the mesa they changed the rock to soil, planted grasses and
trees, then infused the whole area with Quintessence to encourage growth.
Within days the entire mesa was covered with a thick verdant forest, and
the magick had changed those trees growing on the edge of the mesa into a
wood that would float on the tops of the clouds. 

A description of The Chantry proper
	The Cathedral in the Horizon Realm has only recently managed to
put a roof over the buttresses and curtain walls. For a classically styled
Gothic Cathedral this is extraordinarily swift, of course with magick
involved it is not terribly surprising. Already it is becoming apparent
that the Horizon Realm Cathedral is going to surpass the Cathedral in
Washington, though they both resemble each other very closely at the
moment. 

Earthly Manifestations of the Chantry
	The Cathedral is built in the shape of a cross, with twin towers
in the west and a Gloria in Excelsis Tower in the center. Ninety-six
carved angels, each with a different face, pose in a frieze around the
tower, which holds a 10-bells peal, and a 53-bell carillon. The bells are
rung on special occasions, to mark the passage of time and after each mass
is celebrated. 
	A tour of the Cathedral shows that in Gothic architecture,
structure and symbol merge. The design communicates as much as the
hymnals, but often without words, look closely and this can be seen
everywhere. As an example, there are narratives and references in the
intricate carvings and luminous stained glass windows placed everywhere to
give the feeling of a building made of and filled with light. A hallmark
of the Gothic Cathedral. 
	Entrance to the Cathedral is at the North or South transepts, or
through the doors at the west end. When entering from the west you will
find yourself in the narthex (an enclosed porch). Laid into the mosaic
floor are the 50 state seals to which the Statue of George Washington
drawn each time a new seal is added or to communicate to the mages of the
Chantry. 
	In the nave above the Warren Bay is the Space Window, which
commemorates the scientists and astronauts of Apollo XI. An actual piece
of moon rock is embedded in the glass. When the light of day shines
through this window any Changeling who is touched by this light gains a
bit of glamour for every hour they remain here. In the Dreaming this area
is so magnificent that Changelings have been known to descend into Bedlam
if they are not careful. The stone carved angels in the dreaming guard
this area, though any Changeling is welcome, attempts to harm it will be
met with lethal force. This is the Earth bound end of a Trod that connects
directly to Arcadia and the defenses are formidable. 
	Farther down down is the Wilson Bay, containing the tomb of the
only president buried in the district of Columbia. Carvings symbolize
aspects of Woodrow Wilson's life. A crusader's sword on the sarcophagus
symbolizes Wilson's quest for peace through the League of Nations. Look
for a thistle (representing his Scottish heritage) and for the seal of
Princeton University (Wilson was once its president). This is Haunt and
Memorium of Woodrow Wilson himself, unable to achieve what he attempted in
life, he is bound to attempt to try to fulfill his goals in death. Dr.
Elane Smith, the only Euthanatos in the Chantry is aware of Wilson's
presence here and has spoken to him once or twice. Wilson in turn
considers her, and by extension the other mages of the Chantry, to be his
allies in his crusade. Wilson is a powerful Wraith and considers the
entire Cathedral his Haunt, and has the power to back up his beliefs. 
	A few steps towards the center of the Cathedral should place you
in the crossing, a magnificent space where the transepts bisect the nave.
Four massive stone piers soar 98 feet to meet the vaulted ceiling. In the
midst of this is a powerful flow of raw Quintessence from the floor and
piers into this central area. Anyone who meditates here will feel the flow
through them, for mages however meditating or prayers will replenish the
Quintessence in their Life Patterns an invigorate their Avatars. Many a
mage has felt the call to begin a Seeking or experienced an Epiphany here
while in meditation or prayer. 
	The pulpit is made of stones from Canterbury Cathedral, and it was
here that Martin Luther King, Jr., delivered his last sermon before his
assassination in Memphis, Tennessee. Looking into, or entering, the Umbra
before the Pulpit reveals the stone carvings of saints and angels to be
alive, standing vigil with each person praying in the material world. 
	The charming Children's Chapel shouldn't be missed. Everything is
scaled down and designed to delight the child and it is glamourous in the
extreme. The windows tell the stories of Samuel and David as boys, and the
kneelers are embroidered with all manner of animals - pets as well as wild
beasts. The ceiling is as delicate as a christening gown's lace, the
Dreaming the images from the windows and kneelers cavort as chimera at
play. 
	The altar panel in the Holy Spirit Chapel was painted on wood by
N. C.  Wyeth, father of Andrew Wyeth. Golden-haloed angels sing the
praises of God on a piercing field of blue. It is rumored that if you
close your eyes and listen carefully the hint of the angelic choir can be
heard to echo through this chapel. 
	If you walk along the aisles, step more towards the center and
admire the nave. Part of the genius of Gothic architecture was the flying
buttress, which, by transferring the weight of the roof from the walls,
allowed them to be opened with stained-glass windows and flooding the
building with light.  Scores of windows on either side of the nave depict
biblical themes as well as artists who have glorified God in their works:
Dante, Milton, Bach, and Christopher Wren. If you stand before the windows
of each of these people in turn and open you mind to them, their works
will flood over your mind and make for some interesting ideas. 
	Turn towards the western end of the Cathedral to view the dazzling
West Rose Window, designed by Rowen LeCompte. It is a fiery wheel (25
feet, 11 inches in diameter) that burns with kaleidoscopic color,
particularly as it catches the last rays of the setting sun. It is rumored
that shortly after this Window was completed an ancient Kindred stepped
before it at Sunset and was granted the Gift of Mortality. Those with
chronic illnesses whisper that the sunset light filtered through this
Window will cure the faithful, which may be true as mages using Life
Magick to help the worse of those who come here report that it appears the
most vulgar of Life Magicks is coincidental within certain conditions. 
	On the lower floor, or crypt, you will find four more chapels,
burial vaults, a gift shop/bookstore (with excellent cathedral guides), a
visitors center and a brass-rubbing center. The gift shop/bookstore was
originally an attempt by the Syndicate to begin the conquest of the
Cathedral and Chantry for their Convention and the Technocracy. It failed
and the founding Syndicate Technomages have never been seen since the
first day they entered the Cathedral grounds. The revenue generated by the
gift shop/bookstore goes directly to the Cathedral's public service and
welfare funds. 
	Before leaving you might want to go up to the Pilgrim's
Observation Gallery, which can be reached by an elevator in the west end
of the main level.  Located in the twin towers , the 70 windows provide a
panoramic view of Washington, Maryland and Virginia, as well as a
bird's-eye look at some of the Cathedral's exterior carvings. The mages,
through the staff of the Cathedral, also maintain a number of perches for
birds of the area. Recently providing and tending to a pair of Peregrine
Falcons released here as something of an experiment. There appears to be a
Crow who considers the area a home of his as well, but only the mages have
seen him. 

Purpose
	Originally founded to protect the node on which it was placed, the
Chantry has grown and diversified as the Cathedral it's self has grown. 
It is now in the midst of a long powerful early Summer which the discovery
of the Horizon Realm has thusfar prevented from fading into late Summer. A
teaching Chantry as well, it protects and defends mages of all Traditions
and Crafts, though notably some with more enthusiasm then others. 
	It opposes the excesses of the Technocracy in particular and in
general, with this foe there will be quarter, retreat or surrender. The
occasional truce however is understandable when facing the Nephandi or the
rare Marauder.  The destruction of Nephandi is a Holy Mission which the
mages of the Chantry take very seriously indeed. Marauders however are
mages in need of help the mages of the Chantry feel, it is in how to help
them that no one can agree on. 
	The Chantry is determined to help the community surrounding them
and provide moral and spiritual support as the de facto premier Cathedral
of the Nation. The sleeping population is relatively easy in one way, nigh
unto impossible in others, yet the Chantry is committed to the task. The
supernatural population is a much more difficult and chancy task, yet the
mages pursue the goal of helping them as well. 

History
	When Bishop Henry Yates Slatterlee stumbled across the sleeping
Node of Mount St. Alban he first called a very young Thomas O'Malley to
help him keep watch over the land. That very night a very young Bernadette
Veyieves wandered through the streets of the city away from her immigrant
family to find the Node. Slatterlee returned the girl to her parents that
night but maintained contact with the Awakened child and arranged for her
to attend a Catholic School and receive magickal tutelage. 
	From the moment of discovery of the node until the Congressional
approval of the Protestant Episcopal Cathedral Act of 1893, the fight to
protect the node from the Technocracy was brutal and bloody. With the
victory of an Act of Congress to forestall some of the Technocracy's
meddling and the Vision of a House of God in the seat of growing
Technocratic influence in a new land.  The number of mages associating
with the Chantry and their faith in it's survival began to grow.
Washington of the time was not a stronghold of the Technocracy after all,
the main battlefields of the Ascension War were in Europe and thus the
Celestial Chorus was able to triumph. 
	As Slatterlee began the life long task of securing all the
available surrounding land and raising funds. His vision began to inspire
sleepers and mages alike, two disenchanted Sons of Ether served as
architects. George Bodley of Britain and Henry Vaughn of America engaged
in a complicated plan of deception against the Technocracy and completed
the plans for the sixth-largest cathedral in the world in only 13 months.
They in turn helped create and influence the George A. Fuller Company as
chief contractor of the project, a position the company held for decades. 
	When Teddy Roosevelt officiated at the 1907 ground breaking
ceremonies two cabals of mages stood ready for any difficulties. No one
was prepared for the massive influx of Quintessence that resulted from the
use of the same silver trowel used by George Washington in laying the
cornerstone of the Capital building. However Slatterlee eventually did
track it down and the location of the Chantry's second node remains a
tightly held secret. 
	As the Cathedral building began in earnest, the Technocracy
intensified the Pogrom in the city and surrounding regions. Trying to
flush Tradition mages out into the open and drive a wedge into the
chantry's keepers. It failed dramatically when the Paladins of St. George
most subtle found where a group of mages the Pogrom had captured were
being held and rescued them. Bringing the number of cabals active in the
Chantry to four. 
	In the years leading up to the First World War the Technocracy's
presence in Washington did not change much and the Cathedral basically
reverted to minor issue as the sweep of political events in Europe and
technological and scientific progress elsewhere made Washington a minor
town. With scant resources to wage a battle against four determined
Cabals, and installations of their own vulnerable to attack in the city,
the Technomancers in the city adopted a live and let live policy by
necessity. 
	Unfortunately this was the exact moment that the Sabbat decided
that the Cathedral would make for a perfect forward base for their next
Crusade on the city. The fight to keep the vampires out drained the
Chantry of magickal resources and cost them a number of lives. It also
brought the Chantry to the notice of the local Camarilla Prince, who was
not at all happy to find a Cathedral full of battle tested mages suddenly
appear in his midst. 
	Then quite suddenly the First World War broke out and all of this
was put on hold so to speak as the news from Europe seemed to overwhelm
other events. The Kindred Prince and the mages of the Cathedral made
common cause in the face of another Sabbat Crusade. As the savage fighting
slaughtered thousands on European battlefields the Technocracy turned it's
eyes to America and the fresh resources of troops and equipment she
represented. Suddenly there were more Technomancers in the city, but the
War overrode their concern with a Tradition stronghold in their midst. 
	When the United States entered the War the mages of the Cathedral
knew that it would only be a matter of time before it ended and the might
of the Technocracy was turned on them. They began recruiting Apprentices
and cut a deal with the Kindred Prince, providing magickal might for a
preemptive strike on Baltimore which cleaned the Sabbat out of the city.
More importantly it put the Prince and a Justicar in the Cathedral's debt. 
	Then as the War came to a close the Chantry had a stroke of luck
in Sir Gorden Chen, who joined the Chantry mostly to get drunk and whore
around in the city. It was Sir Gorden who found Mammud al-Alkar, or
perhaps it was the other way around. In any case by remarkable coincidence
the two of them were in the nave and sober when the Technocracy struck in
an all out attack, both physical and magickal to take the Cathedral. It
was a close run thing, and many of the Apprentices died, but in the end
the Technocracy retreated and the Traditions remained in control of the
Cathedral. 
	The cost of the battle had been high however and in 1919 a Son of
Ether named Philip Frohman was brought in to take over the position of
Chief Architect and bolster the magickal might of the Chantry. As the Jazz
Age took off and the returning soldiers from the Great War desperately
made merry, the Cathedral began to regroup and regather it's strength. The
cost of the battle for control had been high and it soured the Technocracy
on Washington. Once again resources were diverted elsewhere, Washington
was a minor capital after all, and the situation returned to a quiet
truce. 
	Then came the Hayes Act and Prohibition. Almost at once the sudden
influx of cash and sudden illegality of getting drunk brought the city,
and the country for that matter, to the boiling point. Out of the fighting
amongst the criminal gangs to control the bootleg liquor trade arose three
factions.  All of them quickly knocked heads with the mages of the Chantry
in one way or another and all of them had to be dealt with. 
	The first was Kindred, the Giovanni clan extending it's power
through the Sicilian and Italian gangs to provide a foothold for more
legitimate businesses. Next were the southern Whites, a mixture of old
families and desperate poverty, focused by the KKK on racism and money.
Finally there were the poor Black neighborhoods which should not have been
a problem, yet something very dangerous moved amongst them. 
	It was the southern Whites and the KKK the Chantry faced first,
drawn by the lynchings and the taint of Evil. After numerous encounters
the Paladins of St. George most subtle managed to interrogate and then
destroy a pair of Sabbat vampires who were allied with some shapechangers
named the Black Spirals.  That was easily handled by informing the Prince
and gathering the Chantry another favor owed. 
	After that the Giovanni had an Apprentice Embraced and sent the
poor boy back to the Chantry as a warning not to cross them. The Giovanni
had not counted on Sir Gordon however, who knew a Ritual Rote for
reversing the Vampiric Embrace and returned the Apprentice to mortality.
Then Sir Gordon paid the Giovanni a visit, alone. When he returned he
simply handed Slatterlee a letter and the Giovanni have not bothered the
Chantry since. 
	In the end it was the gangsters of the poor Black neighborhoods
which caused the Chantry the most troubles. The Followers of St. Francis
were doing charitable work in the neighborhoods and began to hear rumors
of monsters terrifying their parishioners. They investigated and
eventually confronted Garou manipulating the liquor trade. Unknowingly the
mages involved themselves in a struggle over control of the illegal liquor
trade between the Bone Gnawers and the Glass Walkers and paid the price
without truly realizing what they had done in the years the followed. 
	With the Stock Market Crash and the Depression which followed the
Cathedral struggled along with everyone else as the $yndicate manipulated
the economy. It was during this time that the Chantry unknowingly made
occasional allies of the Bone Gnawer Garou with their continued charity
work. Then with the end of Prohibition and the growing strength of the
Nazis in Europe the Technocracy began to make it's presence felt in
Washington once again. 
	The years leading up the beginnings of World War Two were the
prelude to a nightmare for Technomancer and Tradition mage alike in
Washington and around the world. By the time Nazi Germany invaded Poland
an informal truce existed between the Chantry and elements of the
Technocracy in Washington.  Nephandi appeared with alarming frequency in
the city and surrounding regions and Marauders were becoming an increasing
problem. 
	Meanwhile as the war in Europe demonstrated the power Technomagick
the NWO began to realize that once again they were going to need to bring
America into the War. To do that they needed to control Washington and in
the city only the Cathedral and it's embattled mages stood against them.
Forces were gathered and on the night of December 6, 1941 the Technocracy
attacked. 
	The date was not a coincidence, persons within the Technocracy had
decided on a world wide holocaust for both sleepers and mages. The
Cathedral mages paid a dear price both in favors called in with the
Kindred Prince and Justicar as well as lives lost, but they held the
Chantry against the worst the Technocracy could fling at them. Then the
Technocracy turned in on it's self and Technomancers fled to the Cathedral
for shelter from the Nephandi revealed within their midst. 
	While the war of the sleepers raged the war between mages was even
more ferocious. The Cathedral sheltered mages of both the Technocracy and
the Traditions as the conflict raged throughout the city and the world
beyond.  Eventually, perhaps inevitably, the surviving Technomancers and
Tradition mages made common cause to clean out the Nephandi. It was a
temporary truce at best, but it served it's purpose by the time the war
was over. The Chantry demanded an oath from the Technomancers who
sheltered there and they gladly gave it at the time, there was hope for a
fresh beginning after the holocaust they had all just endured. It did not
last long. 
	In the aftermath of the Second World War the Technocracy moved
into Washington to stay. It galled many in the Inner Circle and upper
ranks that a Tradition Chantry stood in the middle of such an important
base of power.  Even worse the Technomancers who knew the city best, had
fought the Nephandi an won, refused to move against it. They cited oaths
and freely given words of Honor, even worse they acted as if the Pogrom
was a bad idea, that there should be a Reconciliation. Those that flat out
did not defect were reassign where they could be closely watched. All of
them that survived that managed to escape with the Virtual Adepts later on. 
	 Still the Technocracy had to take time to consolidate power,
especially with an active Kindred Prince subtly fighting them. The Chantry
and the Prince made common cause, between them was a history of mutual
goals and shared victories, favors given and redeemed. The Prince knew the
Chantry mages and could work with them, the new mages of the Technocracy
were too, interfering in the Prince's concerns. 
	It took years for the Technocracy to solidify it's position and
the defection of the Virtual Adepts hit them just when they thought they
might have things under control. It wasn't until the early to mid
Seventies that the $yndicate came up with the ingenious plan to attack the
Chantry through it's chief contractor for the construction, the George A.
Fuller Company and subtly attempt to seize control of the physical
structure of the Cathedral it's self.
	It was a long hard fought struggle for the $yndicate, the
Cathedral finances were not of the modern variety. They dated back fifty
years and were safely conservative in the extreme, the sleepers involved
were also difficult.  Slatterlee's vision still reach out to a younger
generation. Eventually however the $yndicate simply financially wrecked
the George A. Fuller Company to the point of being unable to continue the
work. Thus in 1980 the company was released as Chief Contractor and the
employees, suddenly out of work, were employed directly by the Cathedral
to finish construction. 
	The $yndicate tried with the Gift Shop and failed again. The New
World Order attempted anti-Cathedral propaganda and failed spectacularly.
They tried to influence Congress and other various Government and
Administrative authorities, and lost a lot of Agents. The Progenitors
attempted an outbreak of botulism, which backlashed against them as more
public support for the Cathedral. Then there was the plague attempt, from
imported woods, that failed so spectacularly. Attempts at replacement and
infiltration have proven to be useless, somehow the mages of the Chantry
know when it has been done. 
	Iteration X attempted three straight military style assaults. The
first hit right in the middle of a special service for military personnel
from the Grenada invasion, what the Paradox did not deal with the soldiers
did.  The second assault disappeared without a trace and in fact the
Chantry doesn't believe one ever happened. The third assault came in
straight through the Bishop's Garden at midnight, they shot a sleeper
guard and then the Node's Guardian manifested and dropped the Gauntlet as
the mages from the Chantry rushed in. That was eight years ago and
Iteration X has yet to present plans for another attempt. 
	The Void Engineers have twice tried to sanitize the known Nodes of
the Cathedral in the Umbra. The first time cost them a Qua La Machinae and
reports of Angelic visitations on the control deck and horrible killing
beasts in the engine spaces. The second attempt was even more timid and
half hearted then the first, failing to even find the Nodes before
withdrawing. Other Conventions have questioned if the Void Engineers are
even interested in dealing with this known Chantry. 
	Thus by 1990 the Cathedral and Chantry had weathered numerous
assaults and problems and grandly celebrated the completion of the
Cathedral in a spectacle celebrated before Network Television cameras. In
the years since then once again the Technocracy has allowed a fragile
truce of sorts to emerge regarding the Cathedral. It is after all a useful
conduit for communication between the Traditions and Technocracy. And with
the increasing numbers of Nephandi and Marauders in and around the city
and sprawling surrounding suburbs. The Cathedral mages make very useful
allies in the most extreme of cases. 

Chantry Inhabitants
	Aside from the eighty or so people in the Horizon Realm, the
physical structure of the Cathedral and the surrounding grounds with some
five schools and other buildings and programs for the community bring
thousands into the Chantries purview daily. Most of the staff is
completely and blissfully unaware of even a hint of the supernatural
around and in the Chantry. Of those that do have a clue, most dismiss or
accept it since the Cathedral is a house of God and that sort of thing is
supposed to happen here. 
	This leaves a small core of dedicated Servants, Acolytes and the
rare and fully knowledgeable Consor. Also the Paladins of St. George most
subtle maintain and intelligence network which is known as the Knights and
Squires to those who are aware of it. There are seventy one servants of
various sorts in and about the Cathedral performing various tasks at
various times. The more active Acolytes, the infamous Knights and Squires
number perhaps thirty total, though the exact number is known only to the
Paladins of St. George most subtle and is a closely held secret. There are
exactly eight Consors to the Chantry, mostly helping or associating a
specific mage and they have complete and unhindered access to the entire
Chantry and the Horizon Realm. 
	The mages themselves have quarters scattered throughout the
grounds and buildings of the Cathedral complex. Mages ranked at Disciple
and higher have their choice as to where they wish their quarters to be
and in two cases they have chosen to have them outside of the Cathedral
Complex completely.  Apprentices are housed in a dormitory exclusively set
aside for them and except for extraordinary circumstances are expected to
be housed in the dormitory. Note that some of the fiercest and most
dangerous Wards and Guardians are tasked with defending the Apprentices
and their dormitory. The senior mages of the Chantry realize they are
training the future of the Traditions and take the responsibility with
deadly seriousness. 

Internal Structure and Relations
	The Cathedral is not a democracy, however it's not a dictatorship
either. Organized along the Deacon, Master, Associate, Colleague and
Student/Apprentice line of authority. Consors and senior Apprentices are
referred to as Colleagues while all other mage of Disciple learning or
better are at least Associates. Note that all graduate Students of the
Chantry are at least Associates with some limited access and call on the
resources of the Chantry. Visiting mages are given limited Associate
status as well and watched carefully unless they are well known. Note that
since Slatterlee's death the Bishop of the Cathedral has been a sleeper
but is made aware of mages of the Chantry and is the nominal head of the
counsel of Deacons. 
	Each of the Cabals of the Chantry appoints a senior member who
acts as the Deacon for the Cabal and a Council of Deacons oversees the
operations of the the Chantry. Each Cabal of course specializes in a
specific aspect of the Cathedral and aside from the Apprentices Cabal, all
other Cabals votes are counted twice. The Apprentices receive only one
vote both as a token of their status as mages and acknowledgement of their
inexperience. The current Bishop of the Cathedral has a single vote as
does a representative of the Servants of the Chantry who elect one of
their number to serve on the Council of Deacons yearly at Easter. 
	Given the importance the Cathedral places on education any Student
may at anytime call upon the Council of Deacons to hear a plea for access
to resources or tutelage with no shame, blame or punishment. All Council
meetings are open to mages, Consors, Acolytes and Servants alike and not
once in it's history has the Council of Deacons ever held a secret
meeting. Private politicking is another matter entirely and Apprentices
are encouraged to participate in this as part of their training for their
future roles as members and leaders of their respective Traditions. 
	Since 1895 the Cathedral's magickal community has been bound to a
code of conduct referred to simply as The Articles revised and voted on
every thirty one years (1926, 1957, 1988 and once again in 2019) when it
becomes simply the law of the Chantry. Currently comprising some four
hundred hand written pages, it outlines the various offices and status of
the mages of the Cathedral, also their duties and responsibilities as well
as their rights and privileges.  It covers magickal tutelage and the
responsibilities and rights of the Servants, Acolytes and Consors as well.
Learning it is easy, Mastering it is a much harder task indeed. 

External Relations
	With the other supernatural inhabitants of Washington the Chantry
has mixed feelings. For the Kindred the Cathedral it's self is nigh unto
unapproachable Holy Ground, even the surrounding grounds are difficult. 
Yet the Kindred in the community weld powerful influence, which the mages
are determined to oppose as necessary. These have not been battles noted
for many victories unfortunately. 
	Fortunately for the Chantry such battles have been few as the
Kindred Prince of Washington and surrounding environs owes and is owed
favors by the Chantry. In the subtle twisted games of Kindred politics
this can be as much of a disadvantage as advantage, and as such the
contact between the Chantry and Kindred are rare. The Prince has declared
the mages of the Cathedral to be under the protection of Elysium, for all
the good that does against a hungry Vampire. 
	The Garou are split in their reactions to the Cathedral. The Bone
Gnawers maintain a guard over the Statue of George Washington and
surrounding, stating that a very powerful Spirit associates with the
Statue. The Glass Walkers have long memories and remember being on the
losing end of the Prohibition Liquor Trade. The Fionna however are very
protective of the Cathedral, having managed to slip two Kinfolk in as
deacons on staff. The Silent Striders tend to make the Cathedral,
particularly the Pilgram's Observation Gallery which they visit without
fail. The Shadow Lords point to the Cathedral's accomidation with the
Leech's and the fact they are mages. The Black Fury's appear to be
neutral, but are slightly pleased by all the women's programs and shelter.
The Silver Fangs, keep their own counsel and that worries all the other
Tribes to no end. 
	For Wraiths the Shadowlands of Washington are a metropolis of the
dead.  The Cathedral, a natural enough place to go to gather Pathos, is
too dangerous for any Wraith to tread. The Wraith wearing Wilson's Mask is
just too powerful and determined to protect his Haunt of the Cathedral.
Still the Shroud is weaker here and there are rumors of some fantastic
things being sighted in and around the Cathedral. 
	The Changeling Duke of Washington has his hands full regarding the
Cathedral. On the one hand there is the Trod and magnificent Children's
Chapel with fairly drips with Glamour. On the other though is the fact the
Banality of the place is rather high. Still the Kinian have proven useful
here and none of the Prodigal or Wizards has noticed the Changeling
interest in parts of the Cathedral, yet. 
	With the nominal Void Engineer Construct of the Naval Observatory
a few blocks away watching over the Cathedral, things have been relatively
quiet the past few years. If this is a prelude to something more violent
or simply business as usual only time will tell. The Void Engineers are
happy with the current state of affairs, thought the rest of the
Technocracy is not.  There are other much more pressing concerns. 
	With the other Tradition Chantries of the region the Cathedral
maintains cordial and polite relations. Acting as the Senior Chantry of
the region, which they are not, and most powerful, which they are. The
reputation as a teaching Chantry and the willingness to exchange students
and other things helps as well. 

Status and Reputation
	The Washington Cathedral has an outstanding reputation as a
powerful and determined Chantry in the face of often lethal Technocratic
opposition.  They have fought the Technocracy and won more often then not,
also they are placed in one of the primary seats of sleepers power. As a
magickal college they are very well regarded indeed, noted for the fine
quality of the mages they graduate and the number of them as well. 

Policy Regarding Outsiders
	The Cathedral has taken a cautious approach in the past to mages
seeking to join the Chantry or calling on it's services while passing
through.  Former students have a much easier time of it when just dropping
by then do other Tradition and Craft mages. Still the Cathedral struggles
to maintain something of an open and accepting attitude, believing that
only through setting an example of open friendly cooperation between mages
can long held suspicions be put to rest. 
	For defecting Technomancers, and there has been an irregular but
steady stream of them over the years, the policy is one of very cautious
acceptance.  They have yet to really be disappointed by this attitude and
it is this policy which angers the Technocracy to no end as it is well
known within the ranks of the Technocracy that the Cathedral will accept a
defector. Other supernaturals are much more cautiously watched and worried
about by the Cathedral, especially as some of them seem to be able to come
and go within the Cathedral precincts without the mages noticing them. 

Allies and Enemies
	The Washington Cathedral in the city is a National attraction and
the center of Celestial Chorus activity in the city and surrounding
region.  It is also well known to the Technocracy who has failed
consistently to seize it for themselves. This is not for lack of trying
and before the the Seventies the Technocracy believed that eventually they
would eventually succeed. Then the mages of the Chantry gained an ally and
the Technocracy began to realize that eventual victory had slipped from
their grasp. 
	In the nave above the Warren Bay is the Space Window, it
commemorates the scientists and astronauts of Apollo XI. An actual piece
of moon rock retrieved on that mission is embedded in with the stained
glass. It forms the Earthly base of the only active and safe Trod directly
between Arcadia to Earth is one of the favored place for exiled Sidhe to
arrive. Therefore the Duke of Washington maintains a watch over the the
Trod and protects it from all interference, and by extension the Chantry
as well. 
	The Kindred Prince of Washington knows the mages of the Chantry
well and owes and is owed by them numerous favors. The Tremere of
Washington also know of the Cathedral and have maintained a discrete
contact with some of the Hermetic mages of the Chantry. On the other hand
the Sabbat despises the Cathedral and would happily tear it down stone by
stone. 
	In the Shadowlands of course their resides the very powerful
Wraith of former President Woodrow Wilson who considers the Cathedral to
be his private Haunt and protects it as such. Certain Garou tribes, most
notably the Bone Gnawers, Fianna and Children of Gaia associate themselves
covertly with the Cathedral and protect portions of it as well. The Corax
have established a Haven of sorts for themselves in the Pilgrim's
Observation Gallery which at the moment only the Silent Striders are aware
of. 
	A complete listing in detail of all the enemies of the Cathedral
is beyond the scope of this work, in fact it would be beyond the scope of
a book of a thousand pages or more. The Nephandi despise the Cathedral
with a passion rare and pure for them, a feeling returned in kind by the
mages of the Chantry. The Nephandus who manages to corrupt and/or destroy
the Cathedral will be able to name their own reward to the Greater Powers
of Darkness. Also note that where Angels go the Fallen will inevitably
follow, there are Demons moving along the edges of the Chantry's notice
and only time will tell if they remain on the edges or move in to take
advantage of opportunities. 

Research Capacities
	The Libraries of the Cathedral are simply superb. The outer
mundane Library has an exchange and reciprocal scholar agreement with the
Library of Congress and it's Chantry. Between these two resources if you
can not find what you are looking for it is quite possibly either lost or
does not exist. 
	The magickal Libraries are separated not just by Spheres but also
my Tradition. There is also an extensive Cosmological Library with
documents and records dating back to pre Pharonic Egypt and some Kindred
sources supposedly from their legendary Second City. This Library also
possesses a complete copy of the Book of Nod and associated sources. A
fact which the mages have been at some pains to conceal from the Kindred
they deal with. There are also numerous transcribed texts of Garou oral
legends and a number of Enchanted volumes from the Fairie Seelie and
Unseelie Court from before the Shattering. 
	The Cathedral maintains a small publishing press and creates
limited print runs of books by other mages and reprints of older works.
Supply these books to other Chantries to maintain the availability of
magickal knowledge, spread such knowledge against loss and of course for
the good will it generates. Many a mage has built their personal Library
from the Cathedral's print runs and since Paradigma uses the Cathedral
press as an alternative publishing source when necessary. There has been a
growing number of independent mages seeking to have their own works
published for the magickal community at large. Not that each Student that
graduates from the Chantry is given a small but useful Library of magickal
reference books as a present. 
	The Cathedral would dearly love to begin publishing some items on
CD-ROM, but frankly is at a loss as to how to proceed. Also there are the
computer networks which the Cathedral has installed but is still
struggling to figure out how to use and maintain properly. Since there are
only two Virtual Adepts in the Cathedral, and both of them are busy with
either learning or other duties, the Library staff has struggled along
with the equipment at hand.  There is a proposal to invite in some Virtual
Adepts to organize this aspect of the Chantry, however the two attempts to
talk the the Adepts so disturbed (read completely pissed off) the Deacons
that it has been shelved for the moment. 
	Currently the Deacons and Librarians have begun contemplating
moving the majority of the magickal Libraries into the Horizon Realm. A
massive undertaking that would require the creation of buildings and
structures in the Horizon Realm not currently existent and doubtless
concern the Dragons there. Still it doubtless will happen at some point in
the future. Until then the collection remains scattered in various safe
locations throughout the Cathedral Complex. 
	Also scattered throughout the the Cathedral Complex are a variety
of teaching rooms and Sanctums for the research and study of various forms
of magick. Each Master is given lavish facilities for such work and
assigned Students and Associates as needed or requested. Associates may
have facilities assigned for their use and may also request the assistance
of Students in their researches. 
	Tass for research and learning is under the strict control of the
Keepers of the Keys of Manifold Knowledge and must be released by them to
a specific person. The Keepers of the Keys of Manifold Knowledge also have
unrestricted access to the sanctums and facilities of everyone within the
Chantry. As a courtesy they maintain open open sanctums and facilities to
everyone else but it is only most brave and foolhardy of Students who will
intrude upon them in the midst of their experiments! 




	Well that's all of it, Comments?

Stephen

