From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Mon Dec 27 04:42:04 1996
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from relay.iglou.com (relay.iglou.com [192.107.41.5])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.6.10/8.6.10) with SMTP
	id EAA02037 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Fri, 27 Dec 1996 04:42:00 +0100
Received: from osiris [204.255.236.1] by relay.iglou.com (8.7.3/8.6.12) with esmtp id m0vdTB1-000ZrbC at Thu, 26 Dec 1996 22:41:43 -0500 (EST)
Message-Id: <m0vdTB1-000ZrbC@relay.iglou.com>
From: "Jimmy McKinney" <vorlon@iglou.com>
To: "Anders Sandberg" <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>
Subject: Son of Ether chantry, part 1
Date: Tue, 26 Dec 1995 22:40:26 -0500
X-MSMail-Priority: Normal
X-Priority: 3
X-Mailer: Microsoft Internet Mail 4.70.1155
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

I just posted this to the Mage mailing list, and now i'm sending it to you
for your page.
I'd like to rename it, and I'm taking suggestions ;-)

--------------------
WeirdSeeker - Son of Ether Mobile Research Vehicle

The WeirdSeeker is a zeppelin chantry, built by the sons of ether for
research purposes. It cruises slowly (and silently) through the atmosphere,
studying meteorological phenomena and doing high altitude surveilence. The
airship is also considered (theoretically) more than a match for a Void
Engineer Cassini Armed Universal Cruiser by virtue of superior size and
therefore potential weapons capability, not to mention better Quintessence
supplies (if the technocrats knew about it, they'd be hard put to figure
out where it gets its seemingly inexhaustible reserves), but unfortunately
the Void Engineer vessels far outnumber the zeppelin-chantry. This is of
course untested.

History: As a young man, Dr. Heinrich Ackermann was always fascinated by
the sky. Growing up in Germany around the turn of the century, he
frequently saw the famous german airships Graf Zeppelin, Graf Zeppelin II,
and Hindenburg in the skies. He vowed then that he would be a pilot when he
grew up. Unfortunately, due to increasing suspicion of the German
government, the head of the zeppelin company, one Dr. Eckner, was forced to
use hydrogen in the construction of the Hindenburg rather than the Helium
he wanted. The US had the only natural helium deposits in the world and
they were growing more and more suspicious of the Nazi Party, which Eckner
was forced to accept funding from in order to stay in business. The
volatile gas was ignited when docking at lakehurst new jersey, making
worldwide news. This and other incidents involving military craft led to a
decline in rigid airship technology, in favor of heavier-than-air vehicles.
The age of the Great Passenger Airships was over almost before it began
(however, some colleauges of Ackermann have recently made great strides in
trying to revive the technology).

Ackermann's hopes for a career dashed, he nevertheless remained fascinated
by the sky and lighter-than-air technology. He became a meteorologist, and
it seemed he would remain so until he died. However, fate intervened. Dr.
Ackermann was experimenting with some ideas he had for weather balloons and
a new lifting gas he'd been thinking about. When he managed to produce a
set of  formulae describing a lifting agent with 50% more lift than
hydrogen under certain conditions, he awakened. A local Ether mage who had
taken to watching the young scientist for just this occurence inducted him
into the tradition. 

Dr. Ackermann had his lifting agent, but he had nothing to lift. Eventually
he made his way to the Gernsback Continuum. After studying there for
several years, he met up with his future wife...a female Scientist with an
equally  strong basis in matter, and together the two not only designed and
manufactured the lifting agent (described as "Fused Grafite-Ecknerium in
Compacted Sphericles" [sic] in their articles in paradigma), they also
began designs for the vehicle to be carried by it. This project soon
ignited interest in the majority of the Realm's inhabitants, because it
reminded them all of the Son's greatest hero: Czar Vargo, who nearly broke
the technocracy's stranglehold on reality with his fleet of airships.

When the Virtual Adepts left the technocracy in the 50's, they brought much
valuable data. Among this was an incomplete version of the Primium alloy
formula and process. This proved the key to the vehicle's construction. For
a long time they labored to meld the partial Primium formula with equations
describing etheric alloys. They soon found the answer: Czar Vargo's famous
blueprints of his Conversion Engine. Utilizing a modified engine allowed
them to fuse a derivative Primium-Ether alloy which made an extremely
lightweight, yet incredibly tough metal. It was fitting that the greatest
Son of Ether provided the key to the construction of the most advanced (or
at least the most interesting) Etherite Laboratory.

At long last, Dr. Ackermann began construction of his Zeppelin. By now,
even with the use of the Continuum's rejuvenation chambers, he was
beginning to become noticeably aged. After many years in construction, the
world's newest airship, christened 'WeirdSeeker' as a bit of self-mockery
by the Sons, was launched from it's berth near the spacefield in the
continuum on May 7th, 1991 (earth-date).

The Assembly of Science in the Great Hall in Paris recently authorized
construction of a second vessel which is to incorporate numerous advances
and such worked out during and after the construction of the original
airship. It is currently in the late design phase, which is being held up
by the usual bickering amongst the Scientists in charge of the project.


Description:
Fully 1000 feet long (196 feet longer than the hindenburg, and over a
hundred feet longer than the titantic. Also SEVEN HUNDRED feet longer than
a Void Engineer Universal Cruiser..over 3 times as long), the WeirdSeeker
is an impressive sight to behold. It drifts serenely through the sky,
seemingly oblivious to the War raging below. The hull is a rigid airship
body 150 feet in diameter at it's widest point. It is built in the style
known as "Industrial Victorian Etherism" (the same style found in 'City of
the Lost Children' and Disney's adaptation of '20000 leagues under the
Sea'...Heavy looking bolted plates of a slightly greenish bronze metal).
The general design is similar to that of the familiar german dirigibles,
except that the lower hull is keeled like a ship (It's capable of
water-landings in all but the most severe weather, in emergencies...not
fun, but possible). The interior is spacious and decorated sumptiously in
the victorian style (lots of wood and brass). Crew compartments are large
and well appointed, and in addition to lab, control, and storage space the
ship also includes sufficient recreation facilities to keep it's crew
entertained on the frequently long voyages. There is also a small
observatory on the upper half of the body, along with a promenade deck for
social occasions.


Capabilites:
Power Supply: Weirdseeker runs it's engines from batteries. These are Prime
storage devices which are recharged during electrical storms (which are
rich sources of quintessence...more later). There are several backup
systems run from mundane (if unorthodox) power supplies.

Buoancy: The vessel contains it's lifting gas in 30 compartments (15 on a
side) in the upper half of the hull. It can lose as many as 8 without undue
loss of flight capability (Most of these compartments are backups), though
this depends on the location of the damaged parts. Loss of all 8 on a
single side would cause the ship to roll dangerously, affecting steering
(not to mention making it hard for people to move around onboard). If the
ship can reduce speed to a minimum, or better yet land, it is capable of
repairing up to 5 of the compartments and generating enough lifting agent
to fill them, though this is mildly vulgar and the Lifting Agent
manufacturing machinery would be seriously damaged unless it's done very
slowly.

Navigation: The vessel has a mechanized course plotting device which uses
an entropy effect (made coincidental by lots and lots and lots of FAA
airlane maps and flight plans) to randomly choose the course which makes it
least likely to be encountered by other aircraft at close proximity while
still reaching the goal in a reasonable time. The vessel is piloted
manually except on the very smoothest and most predictable courses. The
bridge is full of metal pipes and brass fittings. It has an old ship's
wheel for the primary steering mechanism. The ship is capable of crossing
the gauntlet, though it does this only rarely as airships are pretty much
coincidental, even weird looking ones. REAL airships haven't been seen in
decades, but most people have seen parade floats, blimps, and hot air
balloons.

Environment control: The largest portion of the habitable areas of the ship
are built into a device called an Etheric Rudder. This lets the interior
remain more or less level during all normal maneuvers. It can maintain this
in up to 20 degrees roll and/or 7 degrees pitch. The interior is Air
conditioned and heated, and otherwise very comfortable.

Weaponry: It was noted during construction that while this is not a
military vessel, the vagaries of the ascension war dictate some form of
weapon capability. This has varied somewhat since it's launch, but here are
the current devices.

    Limpet CM: this launches a sticky mass of greenish material which
splatters over the target and sticks. It is made of another Primium
derivative material and encased in an Ether-made material similar to silly
putty. The effect on targets is similar to a mild casing of primium (3 dice
countermagick, due to the quantity). The ether derived material produces an
effect specifically designed to work around the aforementioned
Primium-derivative substance, and produces results similar to the effect
Slay Machine. At last the traditions are beginning to fight fire with fire.
This device has the capability of firing no more than 10 shots before more
ammunition must be acquired.

    Steam missiles: These are smart missiles (they contain an artificial
organic brain) that lock onto targets and follow them around. They are
steam driven and make a chug chug chug sound as they fly around. They are
not especially fast, but they are incredibly hard to shake. There are 10 of
these as well.

    Electrically charged hull: This device dumps a large amount of
electricity into the hull plates, zapping anything attached to the hull. It
is used to discourage Giant Squid when the ship is in the ocean, or those
pesky Aero-octopi that are found near the bermuda triangle. It is good for
5 jolts, but has a high rate of failure.

   Steam torpedoes: Used against ocean based targets. Similar to the steam
missile, but quieter and slower (both due to it's underwater nature). There
are only 6 of these on board.

   A vast assortment of ray weapons and more mundane projectile weaponry.
There are only limited missile weapons, but the large number of these beam
and projectile weapons makes the ship quite capable of going toe-to-toe
with front line void engineer vessels.

Note that these are defensive weapons only. It is only VERY rare occasions
that the vessel is called upon to make offensive attacks. These are only
under the direst of circumstances, and only under extreme protest from the
ship's captain. Other defensive capabilites are:

   Stealth: Airships can be even better at silent running than submarines
can, when they need to be. They can also run without much heat signature at
all. The main problem with stealthy maneuvering is the craft's large
silhouette. There are several methods it employs to get around this. First,
it normally only approaches densely populated areas at night. Second,
normal maneuvers take place either at extremely high or very low altitudes.
Third, it often travels within cloud formations. Lastly, the aircraft's
hull itself is fairly resistant to Radar and similar detection methods.

  Cloak #1: The original cloaking system actually produces clouds (water
vapor) to hide the ship from sight and other means of detection (including
sonar and radar). It's fairly vulgar unless done in an already extant
cloudbank, but nowhere near as bad as the backup cloaking system. It is
also pretty reliable. The clouds move with the airship until the system is
deactivated, and do not interfere with the sensors and vision of the crew.
This cloak does not sap the ship's power reserves, and so it's quite
capable of firing while hidden.

  Cloak #2: One of the assistants during the design phase was fascinated by
invisibility. Therefore (as usual with Sons of Ether) this ability was
incorporated into the ship. It is usually highly vulgar, extremely energy
draining, and not very thoroughly tested. There are probably several bugs
in the system. It is reserved for extreme emergency use, mainly when the
ship is in danger of being destroyed, or when surprise is absolutely
paramount.

There are rumours amongst the crew that the sister vessel being constructed
will incorporate a cloaking device known as an SEP. This device utilizes
Mind and essentially causes anyone seeing the ship to regard it as Someone
Else's Problem. The main bug with this device is that the ship must be
painted pink in order for it to function properly. There is a distinct
possiblity that one of the crew is borderline Quiet/Marauder and has read
too much Douglas Adams, however... Still, the idea intruiges many in the
tradition.


Ship's Mission: As mentioned before, the airship is a research platform.
It's crew has discovered that the upper atmosphere has it's own version of
ley lines, analogous to the jet stream and other meteorological phenomena.
Nodes are far less permanent, and much more violent. They take the form of
large cyclonic storms like hurricanes and tornadoes. Thunderstorms are a
bit calmer and the ship usually recharges it's batteries in these. However,
it can be occasionally be found floating serenely in the eye of a
hurricane, studying the weather's effects on the umbra and earth. From time
to time (especially in emergencies), it serves as a launch or docking
platform for undersea vessels, due to it's aquatic landing capabilities,
but this is not it's main function. The airship is normally found offshore,
or over mountain ranges. Even with the capabilities of this ship, it's not
wise to attract undue technocratic attention.

Crew complement: Can be run by less than 10 people, if they know their jobs
well, but normally carries a crew of 100 or so. Most of these are acolytes
and so forth, but there are between 20-40 Persons of Ether at any given
time who constitute the officers and research staff of the ship. The entire
vessel can be considered to be an enourmous sanctum if the storyteller
desires, and therefore robotic or other nonhuman companions are not hard to
find onboard.

----------To be continued-------------


--Jimmy McKinney, better known as Gregor on IRC - vorlon@iglou.com--
Lurker's Guide to Babylon 5: http://www.hyperion.com
Ander's Mage Page:           http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/mage.html

   "Magic and technology, Voodoo dolls and chants, electricity"
                                 Oingo Boingo, 'Weird Science'

