From nv91-asa@black08.nada.kth.se Wed Sep 28 15:57:22 1994
Date: Wed, 28 Sep 1994 15:54:52 +0100 (MET)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@black08.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Daily Weirdness
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9409281551.A538-0100000@black08.nada.kth.se>

Daily Weirdness in the Lives of Mages

To be a mage is not a profession but a way of life. After
awakening, life will never be the same again. Mages understand
the world around them far better than sleepers and thus gain
power over it, but this is just one side of the coin. The other
side is the fact that they see the strange events which normal
people rationalise away or simply ignore. Or perhaps the mages
cause them by their own presence. Or they exist only in their
own minds, as results of Quiet or incipient insanity. Most of
it is neither good or bad, its just plain weird. 


Subconscious Magick

Many mages believe the weirdness in their lives are due to that
they apply magick subconsciously. Others scoff at this notion,
but the fact remains that many mages influence reality without
thinking. In most cases this is minor coincidental effects,
usually practical and nothing anybody would comment on, if they
didnpt appear so often. 

Correspondence mages always seems to find the things they
search for, opening a book at random they find relevant
information and when looking for a certain street they find
signs pointing the way.  More powerful mages always seems to
have things they need within reach all the time. Not to mention
the fact that they always seems to find the quickest and safest
way to any destination. 

Entropy mages usually have an inordinate amount of luck, at
least when they donpt rely on it. They also have a knack for
walking through dangerous situations without thinking or barely
avoiding accidents. That is the up-side, the downside is that
chance and randomness often makes their lives more absurd than
most (see the section about Randomness below). 

Forces mages often have good relations with electronic
machines.  When they turn on the television, it will be on the
right channel, microwave ovens heat their food evenly and disk
errors just vanish when they pass. More nature oriented mages
often get weather suited to their moods, beams of sunlight
hitting them on cloudy days, the fog thickening when they try
to hide or have small breezes around them when its hot. 

Life mages are proverbially healthy, and this often extends to
their pets and plants. Often their moods spread to other living
beings, plants wither and die when they are depressed and
songbirds sing when they wake up in a good mood. They also tend
to attract other living beings, especially animals they have
affinity for. A look at the garden of a mage can reveal many
secrets. 

Matter mages are practically always good at making things work.
It doesnpt matter what it is, a kick or some jury-rigging and
its almost as new. Their possessions seems to be well cared
for, and their homes often look neat and tidy without them ever
trying to clean up. Of course, some mages have homes and labs
which are eternally chaotic, resisting any attempts of order
them. 

Mind mages are more variable than most mages, and often have
many odd quirks. Most notable is that they always seems to know
things, or happen to remember something they have read
somewhere. Most have extensive social lives, and seem to
attract friends and confederates around them. 

Prime mages attract strangeness as magnets. They are usually
more than real, often gaining unwanted attention from all sorts
of things.  On the positive side, they have that certain
something which makes people remember them. And often they can
make others memorable too just by talking to them. 

Spirit mages are of course even more exposed to this. In their
daily life, almost everything seems to have a personality. If
you talk to things, you can often get your point across. It is
not uncommon for mages to absentmindedly remind their
possessions of what to do or encourage them on. 

Time mages are either always on time or hopeless at keeping
time, there doesnpt seem to be any in between. However, their
sense of timing is often perfect; they often appear at exactly
the right moment regardless of the situation. They never have
to wait for an elevator, when they are late their trains are
also late and at parties they are experts at making grand
entrances. They are never in the shower when the phone rings.
Not to mention that they often behave as they are familiar with
anything, seemingly floating through life without any
disruptions. 


Arcane

Arcane is one of the most prevalent factors of a mages life.
They seem to somehow drift apart from the everyday world and
enter another, safer but weirder world in the shadows.
Generally, the stronger the Arcane gets, the weirder everyday
life will become.  Forces and events which normal people hardly
ever experience will become more common. At the same time, it
hides the mage from prying eyes. 

Usually mages which high Arcane become very anonymous, at least
to people who donpt know them or just meet them on a
professional basis. This extends to organisations and machines
too. Sometimes their newspaper subscriptions will end
unexpectedly, or the tax- computers forget them. This is
usually beneficial, but also creates numerous irritations.
Mundane affairs seems to slip away, and although the mage
seldom suffers from it, his ties to the normal world are often
severed. 

Common problems for mages with Arcane is that documents about
them disappear; computers will crash when their name is fed
into them, files get lost or accidentally shredded. Officials
handling their cases get relocated, go on holiday or make
administrative duties.  Bureaucracies become even more
kafkaesque than normal for mages, and while they eventually get
proper treatment most of the time, hardly any transaction is
done without some small problem. 

Another depressing effect of Arcane is that most people donpt
remember the mage, or will not be able to interact with him
very well. There seems to be a wide gulf between him and the
sleepers, almost impossible to bridge. Causal acquaintances
will forget him, nobody remembers his name, girlfriends will
often find another partner and forget the mage and his tailor
will never be able to remember his size. 


Synchronicity

Coincidental magick works by synchronicity, but there is more
of that in the lives of mages than their magick can account
for. Strange coincidences abound, and somehow they often make
sense (at least to the mage). There is seldom an obvious
interpretation, and most just seems to be pointless. The fact
that the Danube happens to be 1776 kilometres long, exactly the
same year Adam Weishaupt started the Illuminati may or may not
be relevant. 

Mages report that they see their phone numbers revealed on
winning lottery tickets. The patterns of reflected light from
the windows of an office building form secret magickal symbols.
When they turn on the radio, the speaker just finishes a
sentence which may be interpreted as a direct comment to their
current discussions. All cars in front of the traffic light
outside happens to be placed so their colours form a nice
spectrum. When the mage draws a tarot card in the morning, he
will be followed by symbols or images from the card all day. 

Every morning the mage takes a walk, he will meet somebody
asking him what time it is. A discarded paper blows into his
face, revealing an article about another person with his name.
A street preacher will start to rant, somehow managing to sound
just like he was addressing the mage. A figure looking just
like his Avatar or somebody the mage thinks of will appear in
the background of a film. A mage may suddenly find that he has
the same birthday as the President and his arch-enemy. Tabloids
report events from his daily life and adventures, each morsel
attributed to a celebrity. 


Dreams

The Dreams of mages are no less strange than their daily lives,
and sometimes seems to cross over into it. Some mages
experience scenes or meet people from their dreams in the real
world, or even have actual precognitive dreams. Most such
crossovers are rather mundane, despite the disturbing
implications. Some mages are not so fortunate, and sometimes
meet beings and things from their dreams which definitely donpt
fit in static reality, or even a nightmare. For them the line
between dreaming and wakefulness become more and more blurred,
both melding together into a surreal world where anything is
possible. They are filled with fear that their nightmares will
come true, and sometimes other people accidentally walk into
their dreams. Fortunately most sleepers are extremely good at
rationalising things away or simply not notice strange events.
Or perhaps its just the mind of the mage which is playing
tricks? 

It is not uncommon for mages to have revelations in their
dreams, both from their own Avatar or from other sources.
Ancient gods or spirits talk to him through dreams, or perhaps
its the universal subconscious. This is equally true for the
drug-visions of the Cult of Ecstasy, the shamanic trances of
the Dreamspeakers or the meditations of the Akashic Brothers. 


Randomness

Mages studying Entropy have a close relation to random events,
both for good and ill. They can control them, but a mage who
accepts randomness into his life (say by earning a living on
gambling) will also suffer from the effects of it. Random
events and unlikely coincidences will appear quite often, and
his life will often suffer strange random turns. 

On the other hand, some mages learn Entropy to prevent decay
and randomness (this is especially true among technomancers).
In their denial of chance, they suppress it around themselves.
Almost nothing happens by chance, and their lives are exact and
predictable. 

Randomness can take many forms. The most dangerous are random
accidents. Some mages are haunted by car crashes; each day they
witness more accidents than most city-dwellers do in a year,
and all accidents seem to have some link to them: the colours
of the involved cars correspond exactly to the colours of their
clothes, the car plates spell out his name or phone number. 

The patterns of nature are sometimes influenced by randomness. 
Plants grow in odd patterns around the mageps home, exactly
half of the bushes in a hedge dies, insects appear in huge
numbers and swarm in almost-recognisable patterns. Fruit trees
give fruit on one half and not the other, and the patterns of
falling rain or snow seems to form arcane symbols. 

Some mages are plagued by having entropy, decay and randomness
attacking people close to them. Their loved ones die in cancer
or heart attacks, or are hit by unusual accidents. Their
children get into all sorts of weird problems just because
their names happen to be identical to the names of the
sociopaths of the school. Their homes are hit by lightening.
Twice. 

Other random events are phone calls from radio stations or
constant mistaken numbers (apparently the mage has had the
misfortune to have a number just one off from the local
mortuary). Letters from signs fall off when they pass and the
new text seems to be messages to them. Numbers sometimes
follows mages, appearing everywhere they look. 


Visions 

Mages studying Correspondence, Spirit and Time are prone to see
visions of remote events, other planes or future and past
sights.  They are usually related to current emotional or
personal stresses, or perhaps future problems. 

The most classic type of vision is a vision of somebody the
mage loves in trouble. If the emotional bond is strong enough,
the mage will suddenly get a distinct feeling that the other
part is in danger, has got in an accident or suffers in some
way. Sometimes the mage sees what happens or get a vivid
impression what is going on. In rare cases they see visions of
people planning to harm them or their loved ones, or people who
will become important to them one day. 

Time mages often have flashes of pre- and postcognition. Old
memories suddenly leap back very vividly, sometimes revealing
facts they never suspected. If something awful is going to
happen, they often feel it a long time before as a growing
feeling of unease.  Some mages get intense impressions when
they touch something from its past or future, often the most
important events. Sometimes these visions seems to form
patters, pointing at something in the future or past the mage
must do something about. 

Spirit mages often feel the presence of the Other Side. They
are usually very sensitive to the aura of places. They also
notice things, usually in the corner of their eyes or heard
among background noise. Sometimes they suddenly see scenes or
beings from the spirit world, often superimposed with the
everyday world. They can see the angels in the playgrounds or
the loitering horrors which dwells near bus-stops at night.
They see doorways which ordinary people doesnpt see and
definitely wouldnpt open if they knew where they led. They
notice the extra button in an elevator leading to a floor above
the top floor, or the strange graffiti in the subway. 

But mages not specialising in these spheres also sometimes have
strange visions, especially (of course) when they are very
tired or drunk. 


Symbols

Some things seems to haunt the mage, symbolising events they
might not want to think of, both future and past. Often the
mage is not aware of the symbols or their meaning, and if they
do they are often very uncomfortable around the symbols.
Sometimes the symbols can be warnings from the Avatar of the
mage or his subconscious, but they can also be misleading. 

In _Angel Heart_, each time the protagonist is close to death
and evil, a fan in the background will slow down and then start
to spin in the opposite direction. 

Each time a certain mage is about to learn something
depressing, a person wearing a t-shirt with Kafka will walk by.
Another mage will always find roses on the table when his
love-affairs are about to break up. A certain corporate logo
will always appear to the mage in tense situations or when he
is close to the spirit of his dead mentor. Each time the mage
is depressed and lonely, a phone will be heard ringing in the
background. 


Plain Weirdness

Much strange events just happen with no explanation at all and
no obvious interpretation. Many mages just shrug and ignore
them, while others become paranoid and constantly watch their
environment for new surprises. 

A small girl walks up to the mage, exclaims _Reality is fire!_
and runs away. A woman looking exactly like the Princess of
Swords in the mages favourite tarot deck sits on a park bench
feeding the pigeons. A book with unintelligible handwriting is
found in his bookshelf, despite that he knows that it wasnpt
there yesterday. At exactly the same moment the headlights of
all the cars in the cabal start to flicker, only to end when
one of them breaks down. 

When the refrigerator is opened, all food is found to be mouldy
and rotten, despite that it was refilled yesterday. The people
on television appears to follow the viewer with their eyes or
even talk to him. The colour of his pencil suddenly changes.
The number of wardrobes in his home is suddenly different,
although nothing else has changed.  Somebody has crucified a
flower on the door of the mage. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




