WICCA: THE CRAFT
by Andy Merritt <merritaa@flyernet.udayton.edu>

Disclaimers:
Warning:  Wicca: the Craft, deals with reality in a way not normally 
encountered by the average person in the modern world.  Technically, 
this game is Heresy, and should not be read by those offended by such 
things.  In the game, as in real life, Magick is real, the Pagan gods 
are real, and not devils, and there are laws beyond those of man, which 
are still in effect.  
Legal:  Wicca: the Craft, is designed as an addition to the World of 
Darkness, created by White Wolf and subsequently taken over by the 
players.  I make no claim on any of White Wolf's or anybody else's 
intellectual property, so don't sue.  I just thought that the World of 
Darkness could use a few real Witches.

"Now, then, must you face those whom you seek" From the Initiation Rite

Before We Begin:
	Wicca: the Craft is designed to add the character of the Witch to the 
World of Darkness.  Wicca is a real religion, and the Magicks described 
within are likewise real, although altered slightly by my experience and 
the requirement of  bringing them into the game.  In addition to the 
addition to the WoD, I hope that this game will clear up some 
misconceptions about Wicca, and Paganism in general.  Wicca is a real 
religion existing in the real world; the game should reflect this.  
Wicca: the Craft is not designed to be an easy game; it requires a 
steady moral sense and an open mind.
	Why we're not Verbena Mages:  Verbena are not real; Witches are.  The 
practices of the Verbena violate the morals of Wicca.  We seek to live 
in harmony, even in a dissonant world.  Seeking revenge is not Wicca, 
carving runes into yourself is not Wicca, blood sacrifice is not Wicca.  
Revenge and cruelty (to yourself and others) are insanities.  
Additionally, Verbena and Witches have different abilities, and a 
definitely more religious viewpoint than the average Verbena.  If you 
want to play a Witch as a Verbena with True Faith, so ahead, but 
remember that you are engaged in pure fantasy, and are not based in 
reality.  Wicca being a religion, it is also possible for other 
characters in the World of Darkness to be Witches.  See the Crossover 
section for details.
	In case you were wondering, Satanism isn't Wicca either; Satanism is a 
Protestant sect of Christianity, originating in the United States as a 
reaction to and mockery of Puritan sexual politics, while Wicca 
originated in Europe millennia before Christ, and has nothing to do with 
Christianity.  The idea of a Satanic Witch makes as much sense as a 
Catholic Moslem, in spite of what LaVey might think.

New Terms:
Mundane Name/ Wiccan Name:  Witches typically have two names, one which 
they are given at birth, and one which they assume upon initiation to 
the coven, or dedication as a Witch.  The practice is similar to taking 
a confirmation name in Christianity.  The Witch is known by the Wiccan 
name only in the coven, and it is usually not known to the uninitiated.  
The Wiccan name is numerologically consistent with the given name, that 
is, having the same numerological value as the given name.  No special 
power is given to one who knows a Witch's Wiccan name, expect for the 
knowledge that that person is a Witch.  Occasionally, casting on someone 
whose Wiccan Name you know can reduce the difficulty of the spell by 1.
Coven:  The coven is the name for the congregation in Wicca.  Unlike in 
Christianity, the congregation is less of an audience and more 
participatory in Wicca, joining in rituals and celebrations.  Covens 
differ in social structure, from the hierarchical and secretive to the 
egalitarian and sharing.  Covens are typically led by a Priest and a 
Priestess, with fixed or changing positions, chosen by elections, or on 
the basis of qualifications.  Technically, it is rare for a Witch of 
less than Degree 3 to lead a Coven, but it can happen.
Covendom:  The Covendom is a holdover from the dominance of Wicca in 
Europe.  The Covendom is the are from where the Witches in the coven 
come, and is traditionally protected by the coven.  Within the Covendom 
is the Covenstead, the location of the altar and the place where the 
Coven congregates.  The Covenstead is also referred to as the Temple.
Character Creation

First, get an idea for your character, looking over everything you want.  
Determine how your character acts and then assign the points to flesh 
him or her out.

Attributes, Abilities, and Backgrounds:
All are assigned as in the rest of the WoD, 6/4/3 in attributes, plus 
one dot in each attribute automatically.  Abilities are 11/7/4.  You 
start with 7 points for backgrounds; feel free to adapt backgrounds from 
other games as appropriate.

New Abilities: 
Skill:  Crafting
	Crafting is skill arts and crafts projects.  This skill is typically 
used to create Magickal items, such as daggers, jewelry, candles,  
statues, and other ritual hear.  Any item created by the Witch can be 
Magickally Empowered at -1 difficulty.
Knowledge:  Astrology
	Magick is, to some degree, affected by the moon.  For example, creative 
Magick should only be done under a waxing moon.  Astrology measures the 
ability of the character to predict the influences of the moon's phase 
and sign, and the day of the week, on Magick.
Skill:  Ministry
	Wicca is a priesthood religion, and Ministry is the skill of leading 
religious ceremonies, such as Wiccanings (presenting infants to the 
gods), Handfastenings (Wiccan marriages), and Initiations.  Ministry 
also covers leading Coven rituals to perform Magick, if no specific 
skill or talent is called for. 
Knowledge:  Theology
	Theology is the knowledge of Wicca as a religion, including such things 
as myths, and doctrines.  Understanding the Wiccan worldview (the 
interconnectedness of all things, Karma, the Rede, etc.) is expressed as 
a score in Theology.  Advancing in Theology is often required to 
increase in True Faith.
Knowledge:  Rituals
	Rituals is the knowledge of the details of performing rituals, their 
components, and their significance.  Leading a ritual without a Book of 
Shadows, or similar guide may require an Intelligence+Rituals roll.  
Additionally, new rituals can be developed with rituals knowledge.

New Backgrounds:
Background:  Coven
	@		You have a partner in the magickal arts, with roughly the same level 
of experience as you.  This partner can be your mentor, if that 
background is purchased.  You still need help for coven rituals.
	@@		You have a small circle, 4 other people.  You can properly cast 
circles and other rituals.  One person knows a little more than you do 
(1 degree higher, can teach 9 Magicks).
	@@@	You have a large circle, 8 other people.  You have a priest and 
priestess and can learn most magicks.  (15 Magicks known)  A few other 
covens might know about you. 
	@@@@	You have a full coven, with 13 total people.  You have a high 
priest and priestess and many priests.  You can learn anything from the 
priest/esses.  Most covens in the county know of your coven.  
	@@@@@	You have an elite coven with a Lord and Lady if the tradition 
allows.  Your coven has connections to many other covens on a national 
level.

Background: Book of Shadows:
	The Book of Shadows is a sort of Magickal journal, kept by Witches to 
record the ceremonies and spells known by them.  With this background, 
you have had a Book of Shadows handed down to you from a mentor or 
relative.  As such, it contains information beyond what you know.  A 
powerful Book would be coveted by other Witches, as well as the 
Inquisition, Arcanum, etc.
	@		The book contains all 0th Degree Magicks, 2 1st Degree Magicks, and 
1 2nd Degree Magick.
	@@		The book contains all 0th and 1st Degree Magicks, and 2 2nd Degree 
Magicks.
	@@@	The book contains all 0th, 1st and 2nd Degree Magicks, and 1 3rd 
Degree Magick.
	@@@@	The book contains all 0th, 1st and 2nd Degree Magicks, 2 3rd 
degree Magicks, and 1 4th Degree Magick.
	@@@@@	The book contains all Magicks, including 5th Degree Magicks.

Magicks:  You start with five dots in Magicks, to be assigned however 
you like.  You can put all five in one Magick, or get five different 
Magicks if you want.

Purities:  You start with 7 points in purities, plus an automatic dot in 
each.

Degree:  You start with a degree of zero.  It is recommended that you 
buy degree with freebie points.

Willpower:  Your starting Willpower is your score in Courage, plus your 
score in Tranquility.

Divinity:  Your starting Divinity is your score in Stability, with a 
minimum of two dots if your Stability is less than two.

Karma:  Unless the storyteller wants to assign starting Karma for some 
reason, roll 1d10 for good Karma, rounding up, and 1d10 for bad Karma, 
rounding down.

Finishing touches, it's your 21 freebie points; use them well.

Permanent Divinity		7 points per dot
True Faith: Wicca		7 points per dot
Degree			7 points per dot
Purities			2 points per dot
New Magick			5 points per dot
Improve Magick		3 points per dot
Attributes			5 points per dot
Abilities			2 points per dot
Willpower			2 point per dot
Backgrounds		1 point per dot
Merits and Flaws:
As with Backgrounds, use whatever you feel is appropriate for your 
character.  The world is crazy; take as many points as you want.  Merits 
and Flaws ought to make the character more well-defined, and not provide 
for unbalanced characters resulting from number-crunching.

Pacifism (5 point Flaw)  While not really a flaw, per se, limiting your 
behavior by not harming anyone is a serious limitation in the WoD, 
especially if Garou are involved.  The character's bad karma gained from 
breaking their vow of non-violence is three times that of a normal 
character, and ought to result in a Stability check.

Not Trusted (3 Point Flaw)  Someone in the Coven doesn't trust the 
Character, and has used Binding Magicks on her.  Each Month, this person 
casts a Binding with a dice pool of 6 on her, at difficulty of 6, to 
prevent the character from asking to learn any more Magick or theology.  
This person hopes that the character will lose interest and go away.

Spirit Guide (5 point Merit)  The character has a friend in the dream 
realm, reached by Dreaming Magick, who acts as a mentor to the 
character.  To visit the spirit guide, the difficulties for Dreaming 
Magick are reduced by 2.

Magicks

	Magicks are the powers granted to Witches.  While it is not impossible 
for Witches to harm someone through their magicks, it is much easier for 
a Mage to do so.  Harming someone usually leads to a wealth of bad 
Karma, and is thus avoided by Witches.  Each Magick grants a few powers, 
which can be bent to encompass many effects, although the idea of doing 
anything is a bit foreign to Witches.  Each dot in a Magick increases 
the proficiency with which the Witch manipulates that type of spell.
	Magick can be worked in three ways:  in coven rituals, in solitary 
rituals, and in quick, non-ritual magick.  Coven rituals involve at 
least 5 people (to cast the corners of the circle.)  Coven rituals can 
accomplish most anything, and are led by a priest and priestess, who 
focus the energy raised.  The ritual leader(s) typically make(s) an 
Attribute + Ability roll to perform the ritual, to allow the magick to 
work.  A Magick+ Ability roll is made to focus the energy and direct it 
to the desired end.  In most rituals, a large number of successes are 
needed to have the spell work (30, maybe); the Magick+Ability roll will 
probably not  gather this many successes. Other coven members roll 
Degree+2 and add those successes to the ritual leader's dice pool.  Each 
success by the ritual leader(s) or the coven members will subtract one 
from their temporary Divinity score, successes greater than the 
temporary Divinity do not count.
	A solitary Ritual is done by the individual Witch.  The solitary Witch 
makes all the rolls and uses all his or her own Divinity.  The rolls 
made typically are the Ability+ Attribute roll to perform the ritual, 
the Magick+Ability roll to channel the Magick, and can make a 
Raising+Degree roll to gain additional successes for the spell.
	Non-ritual Magick is done quickly, without performing a ritual.  The 
Witch rolls Magick+Ability to determine the effects and subtracts the 
Divinity.
	In all cases where some negative emotion could pollute the Magick being 
worked, at the ST's discretion, a Purity check can be called for.  The  
character rolls the Purity score against a difficulty of 6 and attempts 
to gain at least one success.  See the section on Purities for details.
	Magicks are often a closely-guarded secret of the more powerful 
Witches, and will only be taught to those students who have proven 
themselves to be worthy of learning.  The Degree rating is used to 
express the development of the Witch, and corresponds to the type of 
Magick which a teacher is likely to teach the Witch.  This is not a 
hard-and-fast system; mentors may teach a few higher Magicks, or special 
needs may force a Magick to be taught earlier or refused to the Witch.

Magick Systems:  Unless otherwise noted, the difficulty of all Magick 
rolls is 6.  Magicks can be used in both rituals and in non-ritual 
Magick, unless otherwise noted.  Each Magick requires a time to perform 
the Magick, and a cost in Temporary Divinity.  Most non-ritual uses 
require a moment of peaceful concentration; this means that the 
practitioner and any targets must spend at least a few seconds together 
without interruption for the Magick to work.  This means that the Magick 
cannot be done in combat, or in a similarly stressful situation.

Degree 0 Magicks:
Grounding:  The ability to 'ground' oneself and remove stresses and 
temptations that interfere with life.  Each success in Grounding+Purity 
(choose one) reduces the difficulty of a Purity check in the chosen 
Purity by 1.  Grounding costs 1 Divinity, and requires a moment of 
peaceful concentration.
Raising:  The ability to raise energy (from the world, the gods, 
wherever) and increase the amount of Temporary Divinity in the 
character.  Each success after the first on Raising+Occult adds one dot 
in Divinity.  Raising the Temporary Divinity over the Permanent Divinity 
is possible, but must be used immediately to power some other Magick or 
the additional points are lost.  Raising requires at least a short 
ritual, over 5 undisturbed minutes.
Intuition:  Intuition increases and augments Empathy.  Each Success on 
an Intuition+Empathy roll can lower the difficulty of a Social or 
Empathy roll by 1.  Alternately, rolling Perception+Empathy can gain 
E.S.P.- like abilities, providing the number of successes is less than 
or equal to the score in Intuition.
	2 Successes:  Can detect lies (Charisma+Subterfuge vs. 
Perception+Empathy to lie to the character.)
	3 Successes:  Can see auras (See Auspex, in V:tM)
	5 Successes:  Can predict the actions of the target (Wits+Subterfuge 
vs. Perception+Empathy to conceal intentions from the character.)
	Either use of Intuition costs 1 Divinity.  Intuition can be used 
without any ritual or peaceful concentration, but doing so may lead to a 
Purity check.
Sending:  This ability, often used in conjunction with Raising Magicks, 
is used to transfer Divinity to another character.  The sender rolls 
Sending+ Occult.  For each success, after the first one, one point of 
Temporary Divinity can be sent to another character, provided she is 
acting as a willing recipient.  Each success costs one point of 
Temporary Divinity.  This Magick has no time requirement, and can be 
done in rituals, or even in combat.
Sensing:  The ability to detect 'feelings' in an area.  These can be 
feelings of good, evil, stress, or magickal presences.  The number of 
successes on a Sensing+Alertness roll yields the following results:
	I Success:  Can detect if a strong energy is present in the immediate 
area.
	2 Successes:  Can detect the type of energy present, no direction.
	3 Successes:  Can detect the type of energy, and the general area where 
the energy is strongest (5' radius).  Can follow ley lines.
	4 Successes:  Can detect the type of energy, and any object or person 
serving as the foci for the energy.  Can find nodes on ley lines.
	5 Successes:  As 4 successes, but details of the nature of the energy 
(history, reasons for it, etc.) are also known.
	Each use of Sensing cost 1 Divinity.  Sensing does not require a period 
of concentration (it may act as a reflex, even) but doing so increases 
the difficulty of the Sensing+Alertness roll by 2.

Degree 1 Magicks:
Cleansing:  The ability to remove evil or stressful energies from an 
area or person.  This Magick is useful for removing Wyrm corruption, but 
the difficulty is raised by 2.  For Cleansing an area, The storyteller 
determines how many successes are needed to cleanse the area (a room 
where a fight had occurred might require 3 successes, while a Black 
Spiral Hive might require 100 successes, and multiple rituals to 
Cleanse), and the successes from the caster's Cleansing+Survival roll 
are subtracted from this number.  Each success costs 1 Divinity.
	Cleansing can also be used in the same manner as Grounding, only with 
another person as the target.  Roll your Cleansing+ the target's Purity 
and subtract 1 from the difficulty of a Purity check in that Purity for 
each success.  This use of Cleansing costs 1 Divinity.  Cleansing 
requires a ritual to perform over an area, and at least a moment of 
concentration to perform on another person.
Divination:  Divination is the ability to predict the future based on 
the situation in the present.  Some medium must be used, such as Tarot 
cards, I Ching coins, Palmistry, or simple coin tosses.  The medium 
determines for the most part what form the answer takes.  Note that most 
methods will yield a result on a failed roll, and may mislead the 
character.  It is helpful to understand a system of divination before 
bringing it into the game.  Note also that the future is changing as the 
behaviors which create it change, even asking about the future can 
change it.  It the Tarot cards say you will die, and you work to avoid 
the situation that would lead to your death, you can probably avoid the 
predicted fate.  This illustrates also that Divination can be a useful 
tool for gaining warnings and practicing introspection.
	The diviner constructs a question, consults the divination medium, and 
rolls Divination+Investigation.  The results are determined by successes 
gained.
	1 Success:  Simple Yes or No answers can be received.  If the system is 
inherently more detailed than this, more successes are required for a 
meaningful answer. 
	3 Successes:  More complicated systems, such as Tarot Cards, work, 
although the answer is vague.
	4 Successes:  Complicated systems work, and are somewhat insightful.
	5 Successes:  Complicated systems work, and the answers provide insight 
as to the situation or the nature of the questioner.
	Each success on the Divination+Investigation roll costs 1 Divinity, 
except in the case of Yes/No questions, which cost a maximum of 2 
points.  Other than Yes/No methods, Divination requires a solitary 
ritual (the caster and the questioner, or just the caster) lasting from 
5 minutes (Eyes of Fa and other simpler methods) to an hour for some 
Tarot Readings.
Harmonizing:  With this ability, the Witch causes all the people in the 
area to behave in a more cooperative and less hostile manner.  Care must 
be exercised, as this Magick can undermine a target's free will and 
generate bad Karma for the caster.  Even if Harmonizing is used to stop 
a Sabbat war party from killing a bus load of orphans, this Magick 
interferes with free will (although good Karma would also be gained in 
this example).  Harmonizing is useful for keeping the Magick performed 
at coven rituals pure of negative emotions.  Harmonizing acts like 
Grounding, except that the people in an area are effected, instead of 
the caster.  Roll Harmonizing+3, and subtract the number of successes 
from the difficulty of Purity checks in 1 purity (pick 1 per casting) 
for all members of a group.
	Harmonizing costs 1 point of Divinity for every 2^x people in the 
group.  Two people would cost 1 point, 4 would cost 2, up to 1024 
people, which would cost 10 points.  Harmonizing last for the entire 
scene, so long as the caster maintains a peaceful concentration and does 
nothing to upset the people (such as fighting, insulting someone, etc.)  
Healing:  Witches are known as healers, of the body as well as the 
world.  This Magick allows them to remove the pain and physical damage 
of wounds.  Roll Healing+Medicine on the following table.
	1 Success:  Ignore 2 dice worth of penalties from low health levels.
	2 Successes:  Ignore 3 dice worth of penalties, equivalent of 1 day's 
rest.
	3 Successes:  Ignore penalties.  Heal as with 2 days of rest.
	4 Successes:  Ignore penalties.  Heal as with 3 days of rest.
	5 Successes:  Ignore penalties.  Heal as with 4 days of rest. 
	More Successes (over 20):  Can heal serious medical conditions, such as 
cancer, scarring (Garou battlescars), etc.  This cannot heal Metis 
deformities, or regenerate lost body parts.
	Each success cost 1 point of Divinity, and requires a ritual to apply 
more than 2 successes.
Degree 2 Magicks:
Dreaming:  Many secrets are revealed in dreams.  While anyone can dream, 
a Witch with Dreaming Magicks can lucidly dream in any dream with a 
success on a Dreaming+Meditation roll, with a difficulty of 6 for a 
normal dream, contested by the roll to create the dream, if a Fey, Wyrm 
creature, Wraith, or whatever is attempting to influence the dream.  Use 
this table
	1 Success:  Can control the dream self's actions within the context of 
the dream.  The dreamer cannot wake up at will if the dream is not 
entirely her own. 
	3 Successes:  Can begin to affect the nature of the dream (minor 
physical changes in the environment).  Opposed changes to the dream 
require a contested Willpower roll. The dreamer can also waken at any 
time.
	4 Successes:  The dreamer can make severe changes to the dream. 
	5 Successes:  At 3 successes, the dreamer is on equal footing with any 
entity inducing the dream.  Now, the dreamer can make a contested 
Willpower roll against the other entity controlling the dream, and draw 
that entity into the dreamer's dream.  Treat the other entity as having 
3 successes on this table.
	In addition, the Witch can induce a vision quest with Dreaming Magick, 
whereby the Witch enters into the dream world.  Roll on the above table, 
with no other entity influencing the dream, at difficulty 4 (instead of 
6).  In the dream world, the appearance of which is determined by 
Affiliations and the Witch's ideas, Spirit guides can be met, and 
symbolic trials can be endured to gain strength.  This is an excellent 
Magickal means for increasing most characteristics of the character.
Blessing:  Blessing Magick creates a beneficial effect for the person 
receiving the blessing.  This effect can be manifested in a number of 
way, such as reducing the difficulty of some action, or generating good 
Karma for a limited time for the target.  The Witch rolls 
Blessing+Occult, with the difficulty being whatever the difficulty of 
the assisted action is, or 6 to generate good Karma, and subtracts one 
point of Temporary Divinity for each success.  Each success reduces the 
difficulty of the selected action by 1, or generates half a point of 
good Karma for the target, which usually is used in a short time.  
Blessing usually requires a moment of peaceful concentration, but can be 
managed under extreme stress.
	An alternate form of Blessing Magick is cursing.  This technically 
misuses the Magick to make an action more difficult for someone or to 
give bad Karma to a target.  Which this form of Blessing Magick usually 
has a negative result, it is nonetheless occasionally useful.  For 
example, an enemy who is shooting at the party when innocent bystanders 
are present, could be cursed, and the bad Karma generated could jam his 
weapon.  In most situations, curses will generate bad Karma for the 
caster, but can also generate some good Karma.
Wishing:  Wishing Magicks cause some desires object or person to be 
attracted to the caster.  For example, the caster might desire a new 
car, and use Wishing Magick to bring a car to him.  Later, he might win 
a car in a contest, or at least find an excellent deal on a car.  Many 
successes are often required to fulfill a wish, and, as a result this 
Magick requires a ritual to perform.  Successes from one ritual can be 
added to another ritual performed for the same wish.
	People can also be wished for, but more caution is called for in this 
case.  Only a type of person may ethically be wished for, such as a 
lover, or a mentor.  Using Wishing Magick on a specific person is a 
violation of that person's will, and will result in bad Karma.  This is 
not to say that the Magick will fail.  It is wise to be sure of one's 
purity before attempting Wishing Magick, especially for people.
	In either case, the caster rolls Wishing+Enigmas, and subtracts 1 point 
of Temporary Divinity for each success.
Empower:  By use of Empower Magicks, the Witch can cause some item to 
exhibit Magickal effects.  To add an Empowered effect to an item, first 
Cleanse the item of any unwanted energies.  Then, roll Empower+the 
Ability to be used in the desired effect at difficulty 8.  For the 
result, check the following table:
	1 Success:  The next use of the object as intended is at difficulty -1.  
This costs 1 Divinity.
	2 Successes:  Roll the Attribute or Magick and Ability, as desired for 
the Empowered effect.  The difficulty of the next use of the object as 
desired is reduced by 1 for every two success on the second roll (round 
up).  Each success on the second roll costs 1 Divinity.
	3 Successes:  Roll the Attribute or Magick and Ability, as desired for 
the Empowered effect.  Each success adds 2 uses to the object, over 1, 
or lowers the difficulty by 1.  Each success on the second roll costs 1 
Divinity.
	4 Successes:  For every 3 points of Divinity spent, the difficulty of 
using the object as desired is lowered by 1.  The difficulty can be 
deduced by 3, and the Magick lasts for 1 month.
	5+ Successes:  For every 2 points of Divinity spent, the difficulty of 
using the object as desired is lowered by 1.  The difficulty can be 
deduced by 3, and the Magick lasts for 1 month.
	For example, a Witch could Empower a Tarot deck to assist in Divination 
Magick.  After Cleansing the cards, she would roll Empower+Divination.  
Suppose she gains 3 successes.  She then rolls Divination+Investigation, 
and gains 4 successes.  She uses two successes to lower the difficulty 
of using the cards by 2, to 4, and two successes to be able to use this 
difficulty the next 5 times she uses the cards.
	As another example, suppose a Witch wishes for his friend's sword to be 
more effective.  He Cleanses the sword (which requires a ritual in 
itself) and then rolls Empower+Melee, and gains 4 successes.  He then 
spends 6 divinity on the sword, and reduces the difficulty of using the 
sword by 2 for the next month.
	Empower Magicks can also be used to consecrate objects or areas.  
Consecrated objects can be used against Vampires with True Faith, and 
Immortals from Highlander: the Gathering cannot fight on Consecrated 
ground.  The difficulty for Raising Magicks is reduced by 1 on 
Consecrated ground.  Consecrations last so long as the consecrated item 
is used at least once a month.  The Witch rolls Empower+Occult, and any 
success consecrates a Cleansed object or area.  This costs 1 Divinity.  
Empowerment requires a ritual to perform, either at the full moon for 
creative effects, or the new moon for destructive of transforming 
effects.  In the example of the sword, this ritual works with the 
sword's purpose, and would be performed at the full moon.
Degree 3 Magicks:
Banishing:  Banishing is the Opposite of Wishing, in that it causes the 
removal of some unwanted person or object.  The system, as in Wishing 
Magicks, is	Banishing+ Enigmas, and 1 point of Temporary Divinity is 
subtracted for each success.  Care must be taken with Banishing Magicks, 
as impure energies can tragically effect the result.  For example, the 
coven wants to get a Catholic priest to move out of their dangerous 
neighborhood, to protect him and get him off their case, and attempts to 
banish him.  However, a few coveners fail their stability checks and, 
while the priest is removed from the neighborhood, he leaves in a body 
bag.  Had they made the purity checks, he might have found a better 
assignment, or been removed in a more positive way.  A ritual is 
required to enact a Banishing.
Retribution:  One of the Magicks most in tune with the divine nature of 
Witchcraft is Retribution Magicks.  By use of this Magick, the benefits 
and responsibilities of Karma are called upon another.  This Magick is 
similar to the use of Blessing Magicks as a curse, except that the 
target need not be known, and the effects of the Magicks do not 
influence the Karma or the caster unless the spell is undertaken without 
proper purity.  This Magick is usually used with an abstract or 
conditional target and effect, such as 'let the punks who beat up our 
Priestess be brought to justice' or 'let anyone who desecrates our 
circle have their evil return to them.'  Specific targets or effects 
tend to pollute the Magick.  In a more positive light, Retribution can 
be used to repay debts to allies, with a focus of 'let our Garou allies 
remain safe from the Wyrm.'  In a ritual, the caster rolls 
Retribution+Theology, reflecting an understanding of Karma, against a 
difficulty of 6,  and subtracts one point of Divinity for each success.  
The results are as follows:
	5 Successes:  The target feels some minor effect.  This might be enough 
to reveal the target.
	10 Successes:  A few effects are brought upon the target.  The target 
may believe that something strange is happening. 
	20 Successes:  Large amounts of Karma are given to the target.  Ironic 
lessons can be taught to the target by the gods.
	30+ Successes:  The gods are well aware of the targets, and effect them 
in many ways.  A valued ally could receive the Merit Charmed Existence 
for a while, while an enemy may believe that all the devils in Hell are 
after him. 
Scrying:  Witches can use Scrying Magicks to observe the actions in 
another area or time.  Unlike Divination Magicks, Scrying only reveals 
the present, and not the future.  On a roll during a ritual of 
Scrying+Investigation, the Witch can observe a scene being enacted at 
roughly the same time, centered on a location or a person.  If a person 
is seen, the location is not automatically known.  The difficulty for 
Scrying a known location is 6, for the unknown location of a known 
person is 8, an unknown, but described location is 8, and an unknown, 
but described person, in an unknown location, is 9.  Use the following 
table to determine how effective crying is.
	1 Success:  The scene is hazy, only sight works in observing.  The 
scene lasts for a minute.
	2 Successes:  The scene is clearer, you can see and hear the scene.  
The scene lasts for up to 3 minutes.
	3 Successes:  The scene contains sight and sound in detail and can be 
maintained indefinitely.  The location of people scryed can be 
determined.
	4 Successes:  The scene contains all senses and Sensing, and Intuition 
Magicks can be used on those observed.
	5+ Successes:  The scene contains all senses, and Sending, Cleansing, 
Harmonizing, Healing, and Blessing Magicks can be used on those 
observed..
	Each minute of Scrying costs 1 Divinity.


Degree 4 Magicks:
Binding:  Binding Magicks are powerful forces to limit the actions of 
another.  While this technically violates free will, it often can be 
used to promote more good than evil.  For example, a reckless Witch in 
the party might have Binding used against her to prevent her from 
harming anyone, until she learns more control over herself.  The 
difficulty of the Binding is based on how broad the Binding is to be, 
for example, 'Don't walk down dark alleys alone would be a 4, while 
'Never use Magick again' would be a 10.'  The person performing the 
Binding performs a ritual over some object reflecting the target, and 
rolls Binding+ Leadership.  Each success costs 1 Divinity, and increases 
the difficulty of the target by 1 to perform the action, if a roll is 
required for the action, or forces the target to get more success on a 
Willpower roll, difficulty 6, than were obtained in the Binding.  
Bindings last for a month, but can be renewed.  The difficulty of 
renewing a binding is one less than to create a Binding.  For example, a 
Priest tells a prospective Witch not to go through a particular door, 
and Binds him against doing so, scoring 4 successes, against a 
difficulty of 5 (he wasn't particularly likely to go through that door).  
Later, the prospective Witch decides to open the door.  No roll is 
required to swing open the door (although, if the door were locked, the 
difficulty to pick the lock or break open the door would be 4 greater) 
so he rolls his Willpower against a difficulty of 6, and gains 4 
successes, which are canceled out by the successes in the Binding.  He 
suddenly loses all interest in the door for the moment, and goes on to 
do something else.  Care must be taken in Bindings not to prevent the 
target from doing something needed to survive, or that would harm the 
target. 
Channeling:  There are many aspects of divinity in the world, and in the 
spirit world.  In a seance, or similar ritual, a spirit, or the dead, a 
concept, or totem or spirit guide, can be contacted through the caster.  
The caster performs the ritual and rolls Channeling+Empathy, with 
varying difficulty, to allow a spirit to act through her.  The spirit 
reacts as on the following table.
	1 Success:  A presence can be felt, and minor effects many manifest in 
the area.
	2 Successes:  A coherent presence is felt, and it may communicate with 
the caster.
	3 Successes:  Questions may be asked of the spirit, and it may answer.
	5+ Successes:  The spirit may channel directly through the caster, 
rather than another medium, such as automatic writing or an Ouija Board.  
The caster may resist with a contested willpower roll, difficulty 6.
	Each success on the Channeling+Empathy roll costs one Divinity.
	The difficulty of summoning spirits is as follows:
	5- no specific target.  'is anybody out there?'
	7- a known target, such as a dead relative or a Garou totem is a pack 
member is present.
	8- an unknown, conditional target, such as any dead Witch, or any raven 
spirit.
	
Degree 5 Magicks:
Becoming:  The most impressive and spiritual Magick in Wicca, Becoming 
allows the Witch to channel the energy of either the God or Goddess 
through him or her.  While using Becoming Magicks, all characteristics 
are increased by 1, Permanent Divinity is considered to be 10, with 
infinite Temporary Divinity, and all Purities are considered to have a 
score of 5.  Karma does not effect the Witch using Becoming, and the 
Merit of Charmed Existence is assumed.  This Magick is usually used in 
Coven Rituals, by the ritual leader, or in times of extreme need.  It 
almost always requires a ritual, although those with high scores in True 
Faith may be able to Become when calling for divine help..  The caster 
must be Grounded or Cleansed, and preferably be on consecrated ground.  
Each Purity is challenged, at a difficulty of 8; any failure prevents 
the Magick from working and adds a point of bad Karma to the caster.  
The caster rolls Becoming+Theology, with the difficulty of 18-Permanent 
Divinity.  Each success requires 1 Temporary Divinity.  The results are 
as on the following table.
	1 Success:  a brief manifestation of the Deity, Temporary Divinity of 
the caster boosted to 12.
	2 Successes:  Temporary Divinity of the caster boosted to 15, Purity 
checks at -1 difficulty. 
	3 Successes:  Deity present in the caster; leads Ritual with all 
bonuses described above.  The Spell is cast using the Caster's original 
scores, however.  
	4 Successes:  Deity present in the caster; leads Ritual and Casts 
Magick with a score of 6 Dots in any Magick.
	5+ Successes:  Deity present in Caster; assume a dice pool of 12 for 
any action.  Not only does the Deity lead the ritual and cast the 
Magick, but he or she remains with the caster for the next hour or so, 
and can teach those present.

Purities

	Purities are measures of the resoluteness of the Witch's morals in the 
face of temptations to do evil.  Believe me, the World of Darkness is 
full of these.  In situations of extreme emotional stress, a Purity 
check may be called for.  The difficulty of a check would depend on the 
strength of the temptation.  For example, an inexperienced Witch casting 
a newly learned Magick in an important coven ritual might roll Stability 
at difficulty 5 to avoid 'stage fright' and pollute the magick, or a 
Witch, returning to the Covendom to find vampires desecrating the temple 
might have to roll Tranquility at  difficulty 8 to avoid rushing the 
vampires.  Each success on the Purity check allows the Witch to act as 
they desire for another minute if the situation is not changed.
	Failures on any roll will affect the Witch in different ways.  In a 
social situation, they might act irrationally, and in casting Magick, 
the Magick will operate in some unforeseen way, usually to the Witch's 
detriment.  
	Botches on any roll will force you to make the roll again to avoid a 
derangement related to the situation which you botched, and, even if the 
roll is successful, you still will act at -1 dot in the purity for the 
remainder of the scene.
Courage:  roll vs. fear to not flee or pollute magick
	Fear will force you to leave the situation, if possible, or freeze if 
cornered (alternately, make a Tranquility check to avoid acting like a 
cornered animal and attacking.)
	In Magick, the power will be too powerful to control and will cause 
unexpected results, which are your fault .

Tranquility:  roll vs. anger to not frenzy (no bonuses) or pollute 
magick
	Anger will force you to frenzy, attacking the antagonist(s) for 
(8-Tranquility) turns.
	In Magick, the power will harm the target, and leave you to deal with 
the karma.

Stability:  roll vs. sadness or self-doubt to act or not pollute magick
	Sadness and self-doubt will force you to abandon the action you desire.
	In Magick, the spell will malfunction and result in an unpredictable 
effect, possibly triggered against the caster.  Any karma from the spell 
effects will be the responsibility of the caster.

Degree

	Degree is a representation of your experience in the Craft, and a 
measure of your position in the Pagan community.  Degree is conferred by 
the coven in recognition of your progress, both Magickally and morally.  
Demonstrations of proficiency in magick and consistency of purity are 
often criteria for advancement in degree.  Traditionally, a period of a 
year and a day is required between increases in degree, but standards 
vary.  PC's cannot start with more than 2 dots.
O		Seeker, you may have some informal training or research, but no 
mentor, coven, or formal experience.  Some seekers may have high Magick 
scores, however.
@		Prospect, you have connections to a coven, and they are considering 
admitting you.  Some training is available to you, but no dangerous 
stuff, as you are still gaining the trust of the coven.
@@		Initiate, you have been initiated into a coven, or accepted by the 
gods, if solitary.  You can be trained by the coven in almost anything 
you want, but little authority or responsibility in the coven is granted 
to you.
@@@	Priest/ess, you are an established member of a coven, and can cast 
circles and participate in rituals to a greater extent than an initiate.  
You are both teacher and student as initiates look to you.
@@@@	High Priest/ess, you lead rituals for the coven, and teach more 
than learn, although learning never stops.
@@@@@	Lord or Lady, you are a well-respected High Priest/ess outside of 
your coven and know a lot, including that there is much to learn.
True Faith: Wicca

"An it harm none, do what thou wilt" - The Wiccan Rede

	Wicca is more than a system of Magick, it is also a religion, one of 
the oldest in existence.  Magick is also known as Witchcraft, that is, 
the craft of witches, and does not comprise the entire belief system of 
the witch.  Wicca, the religion, is based in the recognition of the god 
and goddess, who are pantheistically represented in all of reality, and 
in the recognition of the interconnectedness of all things, which both 
makes Magick possible and is responsible for the karmic repayment for 
all actions.  From a role-playing perspective, a witch loves animals, 
plants, love, nature, shiny things, beauty, non-violence, love, harmony, 
tolerance, and love.  Two sayings to keep in mind as a witch are the 
Wiccan Rede, "'An it harm none, do what thou wilt," and the reminder 
that "love is the law and love is the bond."  As a religion, all 
characters in Wicca; the Craft, automatically start with one dot in 
Numina of True Faith:  Wicca, and can purchase more with freebie points 
or experience.  Being that Wicca is a priesthood religion, (i.e. you are 
a priest) more dots in True Faith are almost a necessity.  At the very 
least, this will really annoy the vampires.

Divinity

"Behold, in these two priests do we see the gods.
And in that know that we and they are the same."

	Divinity is the measure of your raw magickal potential and of your 
nearness to having god-like powers, and is divided into permanent and 
temporary divinity.  As expected, temporary Divinity powers your 
Magicks, and acts in a manner similar to Gnosis and Blood Points.  A 
spell will draw at least one dot in temporary divinity and may require 
or allow more to gain more impressive results.  Following losing 
temporary divinity, a character will fell weakened or tired, but there 
will be no quantifiable penalties.  Through the use of Raising Magick, 
the amount of temporary Divinity may occasionally be greater than 
permanent Divinity, but this is only for a limited time and the excess 
Divinity must be used soon or it becomes lost (and probably requires a 
Courage roll). 
	Permanent divinity is different than simply the maximum amount of 
temporary Divinity a character may normally have.  Divinity measures the 
nearness of your character to realizing the god or goddess within, and 
confers certain bonuses when temporary divinity matches or exceeds the 
permanent Divinity.  Effects are cumulative.  See the chart below:
Divinity			Effect
@@@@			You radiate an aura of Magick which can be felt by Awakened 
beings with appropriate abilities, such as Sensing Magick.  -1 
difficulty to Intuition and Sensing Magicks  
@@@@@@		Some sleepers can tell that there is something special about 
you, although they can't identify it.  Prospective Witches will be 
attracted to you, reduce your social difficulties by 2.  -1 difficulty 
to Divination, Raising, Cleansing, and Grounding Magicks. 
@@@@@@@@		Most Awakened Beings can tell that you have some Magickal 
ability.  -1 difficulty to Healing, Blessing, Dreaming, and Harmonizing 
Magicks.
@@@@@@@@@@	Most Sleepers can tell that there is something special about 
you which challenges their paradigms.  The Technocracy is bothered by 
your very existence.  -1 Difficulty to Binding, Banishing, Wishing, and 
Becoming Magicks.  Can do Intuition and Sensing Magicks at -1 Divinity 
cost (which means some powers operate at no cost.)
Karma

"As this wine drains from the goblet,
So let the blood drain from my body,
Should I ever do aught to harm the gods,
Or those in kinship with their love."

	As mentioned in True Faith:  Wicca, the universe is interconnected, and 
one result is Karma.  Karma Measures the impact of your actions on the 
universe, and how the universe responds to you.  Good actions, such as 
healing people, avoiding conflicts, helping the less fortunate, creating 
a better world, and being a good person in general will generate good 
Karma.  Conversely, evil actions, such as hurting others, creating 
harmful disorder (or harmful order, for you fans of the Technocracy), or 
refusing to help others for some selfish motive, and contributing to the 
general decay of the world will generate bad Karma.
	The Storyteller has the say on what actions will generate Karma and how 
Karma is dealt with.  Karma is traditionally given back threefold in 
response to any actions on the universe, physical or Magickal, and often 
returns in creative and educational ways.  Karma is governed from 
outside the characters, and cannot be used at the character's request.  
Some ways of using good Karma are to add successes (to dodge  or soak 
rolls, perhaps, which would cost one point per success), or to raise 
Permanent Divinity (which would use up all ten points, as well as 
experience).  Good Karma can also be used in role playing by having 
characters be more cooperative to the PC, or by having fortuitous 
coincidences occur to the character's benefit.  Do not allow the 
character to perform epic feats just because he or she has a point of 
Karma, but don't be too stingy.  In Wicca; the Craft, good things tend 
to happen to good people.
	Storytellers should love teaching humility to characters with bad 
Karma.  Use a point of bad Karma to add botches to important rolls (just 
don't kill the character unnecessarily!) or make the character's life 
more difficult in other ways.  A character with bad Karma will probably 
never win the lottery.
	One final note, good karma and bad karma do not cancel each other out.  
A character with 6 points of good karma and 4 of bad still has to deal 
with the bad karma, and can't just reduce both numbers by 4.  Boring 
people tend to have little Karma built up, while people with interesting 
lives (like the characters) should have fluctuating levels of Karma.

Advancement

	As the characters progress, they accumulate experience.  The various 
characteristics of the Witch are increased as follows:
Attributes: Current Rating X 4
Abilities: Current Rating X 2
New Ability: 3
Magick:  Current Rating X 3
New Magick: Degree X 2 (Degree 0 Magicks cost 2)
Virtues:  Current Rating X 2
Willpower:  Current Rating
Divinity is raised by spending Current Rating X 2 experience points, and 
requires a ritual, whereby the Witch is tested on her Purities, at a 
base difficulty of 5, and must have 10 points of good Karma, which are 
spent in the ritual.
Degree is treated as a Background, and is raised through role playing, 
keeping in mind that most sects require a period of a year and a day 
minimum to advance.

Witches in The World of Darkness

	Witches typically are aware of the existence of some of the other 
awakened beings which populate the World of Darkness.  While they are 
apt to judge each creature on its own merits, the following stereotypes 
are also present.  The Wiccan position is presented first, then a 
position from the respective creature.
Vampires  "Whatever evil forces animate these corpses, we must do what 
we can to protect the Earth from them.  What they do to us will be 
visited upon them.  Their reaction to our faith shows them to be 
detestable abominations."
	"They are human, and thus of marginal concern to us.  However, the 
weaker of our clans often babble about curses and such arising from 
preying upon those close to them, although they lack the offensive power 
of the Tremere.  They occasionally are in league with Hunters, and must 
then be destroyed."

Werewolves  "The Garou are our friends in the custody of nature and many 
have a rapport with nature and the divine, as do we.  However, their 
violence is not an acceptable method of dealing with opposition, and 
explains their plight in these times.  Still, it may be useful to have a 
werewolf at your side to intimidate those who would molest you."
	"Their magick is strong, and in harmony with Gaia, although they are 
weak warriors.  Their love and faith are proof against the Wyrm, and we 
wish more people could be like them."

Mages  "Magick is not a toy- it is a responsibility.  Throwing 
fireballs- what are they thinking?  We see that Paradox is the penalty 
of the gods upon those who live outside of nature, and fancy themselves 
above it.  Still, many have good motives and we join their stand against 
the Technocracy."
	"Many of us in the traditions are intrigued by the resoluteness of 
these Wizards who somehow avoid Paradox.  Although the Celestial Chorus 
is against them, they have attracted members of the Verbena, 
Dreamspeakers, and Cultist of Ecstasy to their cause, and are useful 
allies for good.  If your motives appear less than pure, however, many 
of us would rather tangle with a werewolf- at least then you can see him 
coming."

Wraiths  "The spirits of the dead seem to be in pitiable shape, and many 
spend the time between lives in agony over their failures while living.  
If they manage to contact you, it is often good to aid them if their 
cause is good.  After all, it would be good to have such a favor 
returned if you should need it.  They have taught us of the time between 
lives, and it appears that the gods do answer our prayers there, as well 
as here.  Be careful with your trust in aiding the dead, as some have a 
tendency to turn on you with great malice."
	"I met a dead Witch once- never did see a dame so intent on 
transcendence, but she kept on gettin' involved with any old person on 
the street who needed help.  Freaky thing, though, she was only dead a 
short time, and could do stuff I ain't ever seen done, even here.  She 
showed me her coven in the Quick, and they're hindin' some of my fetters 
for me, keeping them safe.  Nice people."

Immortals  "I met an immortal once and we became friends.  Now, he was 
really into swords, and asked me to Empower his weapon.  I did it, but 
told him not to misuse the gift.  Well, he went and- and this freaked me 
out- chopped this nice lady's head clean off!  I tried to explain that 
harming another was wrong, but he didn't listen.  Well, the next time he 
fought, he was using the Empowered sword, and was winning, until he went 
for the guy's head.  Then, his sword suddenly shattered, as if it were 
made of glass.  He accused me of cursing his sword!"
	"The Witches are powerful, but make poor allies for our causes.  Their 
game is one of morality, and prevents them from joining in our little 
contest.  If you wish to take a break from the duels, however, there are 
few better places to hide than in a coven of them.  They might even 
teach you something. "

Gargoyles  "Like us, they defend the weaker members of society, but, 
like the Garou, their violent ways are a continual stumbling block in 
dealing with the gargoyles.  Call on them when the direct approach seems 
to be warranted, for their righteous anger is the match for the 
strongest opponent. "
	"These Witches seem ill at ease in the city, and we have had to pull 
them out of conflicts they cannot survive before.  Their morality is 
refreshing- it hearkens back to the mythical age, as does ours, and 
prevents them from becoming our foes."

So you want to be a Witch...

	Unlike other types of characters, anyone can join the faithful in 
Wicca.  Today, people of different ideas who feel alienated by the 
Judeo-Christian mainstream society, set apart by sexual orientation, 
gender identity, ecological concerns, or personal codes of honor, find a 
home in Wicca.  The same is true in the World of Darkness.  With the 
Storyteller's permission, and a damn good reason, a character generated 
in another game can convert to Wicca and gain the advantages and 
responsibilities of the Witch.  This is a simple outline of the system.
	First, you will want to purchase True Faith: Wicca.  I figure a lot of 
role playing, a few dots in Theology, Meditation, Occult, etc., and a 
lot of work in locating a coven that will accept him ought to allow a 
character to purchase that first dot at a cost of about 20 experience 
points.  With this, the character gains the ability to learn Magicks, a 
Degree of 1, and seven points with which to purchase Purities (to not 
adjust Willpower to the Purities).  The Character also gains the 
double-edged sword of being held accountable to Karma.  In effect, this 
should kill vampiric Witches within a week (after enough blood-sucking, 
the accumulated bad Karma ought to get them to spontaneously combust.).  
For Wiccan Mages, treat Wiccan Magick as coincidental, unless they 
really do something weird.  Wiccan Garou will probably see their combat 
abilities drop and their spiritual connection increase.
	The most dramatic change in converting to Wicca will be in the 
Shadowlands, where Wiccan Wraiths find that the gods do not desert you 
after death.  However, they may also find that, with their powers, the 
role of Guardian Angel may be expected of them (they may gain a ward as 
a Fetter and a Passion to protect her).  Between lives, Wicca teaches 
that we can still learn about life by observing and aiding the currently 
living.  The double whammy of Angst and bad Karma, however could prove 
dangerous to the immoral.  A coven can probably be found in some Heretic 
strongholds.

Storytelling Witches in The World of Darkness

	Witches were originally intended for use as characters in 
multi-character chronicles, as contacts for Garou, allies for Mages, 
associates of FBI SAD agents. etc.  When I showed the game to Anders 
Sandberg, however, he noticed that, as a whole, witches seems to lack a 
personal motivation.  While I had originally neglected this aspect of 
Wicca, in order to avoid creating any new stereotypes, the need to 
explain what a Witch might want to do in the World of Darkness does 
seem to be valid.
	As a said before, we seek to live in harmony, even in a dissonant 
world.  This would make Witches guardians of a sort, not necessarily of 
humanity, but rather of goodness.  The Witch confronts a world where his 
religion is commonly believed to be a tool of Satan, while seeing that, 
if any evil exists, it is more likely to be found in society than in his 
gods.  There is a distance between knowing how to live in harmony with 
the universe, and actually being able to do so.  Much of the difficulty 
in crossing this distance is the result of the actions of the 
unenlightened, who tend to pursue other, counterproductive ends.  The 
challenge posed by the unenlightened is threefold, we cannot ignore the 
unenlightened, because they are our brothers, and have every right  to 
be included in the world; we cannot fight the unenlightened, for that is 
not our way, and it is immoral, and we cannot place ourselves above the 
unenlightened, for that would distance ourselves from the world, where 
our power is based, and where our place in this existence is.  We are 
neither shepherd nor sheep, and certainly not wolf.  Our place is to 
preserve the world, to keep the Magick and the Laws of the old ways 
alive, and to bring them peacefully back into the light, without 
destroying the world in the process of recreating it.
	Because of her beliefs, a Witch is unlikely to assume a physical 
opposition to her enemies, and is more likely to avoid creating a 
conflict in the first place.  Given the nature of the World of Darkness, 
however, the likelihood of avoiding conflict is roughly nil.  Given that 
various forces in the world will inevitably come into conflict with the 
idea of living in harmony, and the fact that Witches are, at their core, 
human, the world of the Witch is a strange and often painful amalgam of 
wonder and disappointment, hope and cynicism.  We perceive the beauty of 
the universe, and the wonders of the potential for living with the world 
and the gods, and everywhere see that beauty paved over and polluted, 
that hope wasted in the hubris of evil, the despair of drugs, or the 
wasted opportunities and petty cruelties of ignorance.  At times is 
feels as if we are screaming into the void, the peace we have tasted 
lost in the unfeeling distance and returned as a corrupted whisper of 
bile.
	Thus, the following story conflicts seem likely for Witches in the 
World of Darkness:

	Witch vs. Mortal:  Witches are less likely than other inhabitants to 
hide in the darkness, away from other mortals.  As human themselves, 
they are involved in the mundane problems of crime, urban decay, 
corruption, insanity, domestic abuse, etc.  All the tragedy of the 
evening news can be brought to the attention of the Witch, with the 
divine imperative to do *something* to fix the problems.  Using a 
combination of subtle Magick and social skills to solve a problem, 
rather than simply shooting the abusive parent, can present an 
interesting challenge, and avoid mere hack-and-slash.  On the other 
hand, the Inquisition does have Witches as their prime target.  Running 
from the forces of the Inquisition while trying to make the (at times 
unwilling) world a better place can certainly spice up the chronicle.  
As mentioned before, as aides to FBI hunters, or Arcanum scholars 
themselves, the Witch can experience the tragic beauty of the World of 
Darkness from a more human perspective, without being rendered 
relatively powerless. 
	Witch vs. Witch:  This would actually be Witch vs. fallen (or falling) 
Witch, as the characters have to maintain the internal structure of the 
coven against a renegade Witch, who has strayed from morality and is 
courting negative effects for both all of society and himself.  The 
chronicle is an excellent opportunity for realizing both the limits of 
karma, and the benefits of morality.
	Witch vs. unknown:  Anything can happen in the world, but who can 
understand all of it?  A simple quest to determine what is going on, to 
discover the root cause of some evil in the world, can become hopelessly 
confusing for a while, before yielding hard-won illumination about human 
nature and the state of the universe.
	Witch vs. anything else in the World of Darkness:  Darkness is security 
and protection, allowing the oppressed to live without harassment, and 
the oppressor to act without witnesses.  Having lived since the coming 
of the Christians in darkness, Witches are going to encounter, at some 
point, the rest of the inhabitants of the darkness.  Some, like the 
Garou, are likely allies, while Vampires would be opponents offered 
little quarter; if the Faith of the Witch cannot reverse the curse of 
vampirism, it will typically ensure that there is at least one less 
sufferer.  Others would be treated differently, as explained in the 
Crossovers section.

	There would also be a number of character development plots, which 
would have as the only conflict the imperfections of the self.

	Focused on wonder:  There is beauty yet in these dirty streets, and the 
Witch is likely to be able to find it.  Magickal events take place all 
the time, but much of society is trained to ignore it in favor of 
pursuing their petty lusts.  Following that stray cat with the powerful, 
but invisible, aura to see where it goes might make you look like a 
lunatic to others, but the rewards will repay the leap of faith required 
to find its birthing place.
	Focused on purity:  Nobody's perfect, and the weaknesses of the self 
must be resolutely faced to ever be transformed into strengths.  In the 
context of another plot, continually hammering on the purities of the 
character can lead to an awareness of the self, and one's personal value 
and power.  Such a chronicle can either be empowering, if the trials are 
survived and understood, or disheartening, leading to a realization of 
weakness, which can provide the basis for future growth. 
	Focused on the Divine:  Wicca is a religion, and the gods are close to 
the faithful.  Allowing the Witch to experience the Divine as a real, 
live, vibrant thing, not a well-drawn pentacle on a dry, dusty book, can 
allow for some impressive personal growth.  A vision quest, for example, 
can allow the character to experience a reality beyond this mundane 
world, and return inspired, ready to face the mundane world with eyes 
both on the human and the divine, or better yet, eyes that realize how 
superficial that distinction is.




Column 1

Mundane Name:
Wiccan Name:
Player:

*****************************
Strength 	@OOOO
Dexterity 	@OOOO
Stamina	@OOOO

*****************************
Talents
Alertness______	OOOOO
Athletics_______	OOOOO
Brawl_________	OOOOO
Dodge________ 	OOOOO
Empathy______ 	OOOOO
Expression____ 	OOOOO
Intimidation____ 	OOOOO
Leadership____ 	OOOOO
Streetwise_____	OOOOO
Subterfuge____ 	OOOOO

*****************************
Backgrounds:
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO

*****************************
Degree	OOOOO

True Faith@OOOOOOOOO

Other Traits
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO

 Column 2

Nature:
Demeanor:
Chronicle:

*********Attributes**********
Charisma	@OOOO
Manipulation	@OOOO
Appearance	@OOOO

**********Abilities***********
Skills
Animal Ken____	OOOOO
Crafting_______	OOOOO
Drive_________	OOOOO
Firearms______  	OOOOO
Meditation_____	OOOOO
Melee________ 	OOOOO
Ministry_______ 	OOOOO
Performance___	OOOOO
Stealth________	OOOOO
Survival_______	OOOOO

********Advantages********
Magicks:
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO
_____________   OOOOO

*****************************
Willpower
OOOOOOOOOO
oooooooooo

Divinity
OOOOOOOOOO
oooooooooo

Karma

Good	oooooooooo
Bad	oooooooooo

Column 3
Coven:
Covendom:
Concept:

*****************************
Perception	@OOOO
Intelligence	@OOOO
Wits		@OOOO

*****************************
Knowledges
Astrology_______	OOOOO
Computer______	OOOOO
Enigmas_______	OOOOO
Investigation____	OOOOO
Linguistics______	OOOOO
Medicine_______	OOOOO
Occult_________	OOOOO
Rituals_________	OOOOO
Theology_______	OOOOO
Lore__________	OOOOO

*****************************
Purities:
Courage:	@OOOO

Stability:	@OOOO

Tranquility:	@OOOO

*****************************
Health Levels
Bruised		o
Hurt		(-1)	o
Injured	(-1)	o
Wounded	(-2)	o
Mauled	(-2)	o
Crippled	(-5)	o
Incapacitated	o

Experience:
Gained:	Used:

