Date: Fri, 2 Sep 1994 19:36:36 -0400 (EDT)
From: E.P. Long <u9210266@muss>
To: wraith-l@wizards.com
Subject: mage\wraith crossover

Here are some quick ideas that I came up with a work today:

Within the Order of Hermes there are two rotes that are known to allow a 
mage to access the Shadowlands.  The exact details of these rotes are 
carefully guarded secrets.  Magick which allows contact with the dead are 
normally not frowned upon, but actually entering their lands is dangerous 
as an unwary mage can cause all sorts of problems.  In addition, the mage 
usually enters with even more dangerous motives, such as bringing back 
the dead.  The reprecussions of such an act are debated but are probably 
staggering upon the land of the living.

Dream Quest of Orpheus (Spirit 3 Mind 3 Corespondence 2 [Prime 3])

This rote allows the mage to send his consciousness across the shroud, 
while safely leaving his body behind.  Traditionally, the mage consumes a 
full meal, lights incense, and then falls asleep (often Mind 2).  An 
acolyte then presses a penny on top of each of the mage's eyes.  The 
difficulty of this rote is 6 or the Shoud rating (whatever is higher).

The mage then awakens in the Shadowlands, effectively as a wraith.  She 
has as many corpus levels as the mage has temporary willpower (the 
connection is tenous).  While not having any Arcanos, the mage does have 
full access to her Spheres, within the paramaters of the Shadowlands.  
Unfortunately, as the avatar of the mage still rests within the 
quicklands, the mage cannot use any quintessence.  This problem can be 
corrected by a Prime 3 component to the rote, but this can cause other 
problems (qv).  The mage has two pennies as relics (these disappear when 
the mage returns to the lands of the quick).

Wraiths will only notice that the mage does not belong on a Per+Awareness 
roll of 9 (2 successes), or if the mage uses any obvious magicks.  
Healing is a real problem for the mage, so she should tread lightly.  If 
the mage loses all her corpus, then she is flung back into the living. 
She then must immediately make a willpower roll (difficulty 8, number of 
successes=1+excess damage) or permanently lose a willpower point.

Descent into the Underworld [Spirit 3 Correspondence 3 Matter 2]

This rote allows the mage to corporeally enter the Underworld.  The 
advantage of this method is that he can bring along any items that he 
pleases and brings his avatar with him.  Unfortunately, he takes real 
damage and can really die if attacked.  All goods that are brought in 
disappear when the mage exits, except for talismans which can exist in 
the Shadowlands (and are often lost here).

The rote begins with a purification of the self (method varies) and 
meditation.  The mage begins to travel and finds paths not normally in the real world.  Eventually these descend into the Shadowlands (and from 
there to Stygia).  Some mages have reported border guards, such as 
Cerebus, but reports conflict.  The mage needs #successes=shroud rating, 
but this can be an extended roll.  The journay can take 
minutes/hours/weeks...

ex) Manfred prepares himself in his apartment sanctum.  He then leaves, 
heading down the hallway.  He enters a door which is not normally there.  
It's an elevator which descends.  It opens in a dead alleyway.  Manfred 
opens up a sewer grate and climbs down...

The Tremere have ritualized versions of both these rotes (level 5), but 
these undoubtably call for baby sacrifices or choping of limbs or 
something.  The Tremere are like that.
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Mages in the Shadowlands

The Shadowlands are not a fun place to wield magick.  While there is no 
paradox, and all magick is treated as coincidental, the conditions are not 
conductive to magick (Correspondence 0 Entrophy -1 Forces -1 Life - 
3 Matter -2 Mind 1 Prime -1 Spirit 0 Time 0).  Trying to create a juniper 
bush in the middle of a Necropolis will cause a great deal of havoc.  
Creating food as gifts will make friends though.  Pattern magicks such as 
Matter that require Prime actually require the expenditure of the mage's 
own quintessence since none is readily available.

The Mage's Shadow 

Mages have shadows just like anybody else.  Fortunately their avatars 
protect them in the fashion that the Eihidon (sp?) background does.  Of 
course if they didn't bring their avatar with them...

For the creation of the shadow, roll Angst as one would for a Wraith.  
They do not have thorns yet, but they can use the mage's spheres if 
theycan sneak it by the psyche (opposed Angst+1 vs Per+Awareness) (although 
they 
never can spend quintessence).  These shadows are simply not as strong 
yet as those of the dead.  They can however call upon any hobgoblins that 
the mage might have to help them out.  Rather than drag the mage to 
oblivion (since the shadow is still enjoying life), they take great 
pleasure in drawing the mage away from the Ascension.

For vampires (or mundaners), shadows roll for Angst with a 
difficulty=Humanity+1.

Shadows and the Quick

Wraiths and spectres resent the living within the Shadowlands.  Quite 
simply, they ooze of vitality and quintessence.  For the shadows it is 
like starving in a Somali refugee camp, while watching others throw away 
a fabulous seven-course meal.  They will often try to steal 
quintessence/life away from the living.  1 Quintessence=1 Pathos (but of 
the finest vintage)/ as does 1 health level (good vintage).  The ST can 
decide which sort of Arcanos can consume these energies (usury, etc) or 
if just simple attacks or some form of spectral vampirism.  This is why 
entering on the sly is usually a good idea.

While the wards of the living (including the Thaumaturgy ritual) do work, 
they are quickly overwhelmed in the Shadowlands in a matter of minutes 
and are not considered reliable.  Spirit 4 (Shroud Barrier) could provide 
protection, but again only for a brief period of time.

These are just ideas.  Suggestions, flames, comments?

Everitt Long
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
It's the spread of culture / The sword of progress
the vector of suffrage / a warm and septic breeze
the pomp and elatation / the duty and vocation
the blood of the hybrid / it's just a recipe

Bad Religion, "Recipe for Hate
- --------------------------------------------------------------------


